My recurring observations while trying to use AI in 2024 led to a high-conviction decision in that November, when Claude 3.7 was launched.  GenAI speaks Markdown, Markup, JSON, and CSV as basal file formats and semi-structured data. Like most early adopters, I piddled with AI tooling from the hyped launch of ChatGPT. Claude 3.7 was different. Claude could do some of the work I wanted it to do, and do it accurately enough to feel like a breakthrough. I needed to move from piddling to full dedication. 

My first step was to migrate all relevant data and files for my projects into, and then work entirely in Markdown, Markup, JSON, and CSV. All my work needed to get out of Microsoft, Apple or other specialized applications. While this was logical for me, I haven’t encountered someone else who also made this their first step. For a good while, this created a huge amount of work, often down bottomless rabbit holes. Nagging at me constantly was the real possibility this work could prove unnecessary. Yet, with a dose of conviction and unhealthy amounts of stubbornness (as well as a plethora of open source file conversion libraries), the move from proprietary file and data formats to the basal formats GenAI "speaks" has turned into a massive productivity breakthrough.

With over a thousand Markdown files by January 2025, I needed a system to attempt metadata thoroughness and integrity in the frontmatter of Markdown files (in YAML syntax). This revealed a missing feature of text editors, IDEs, and the many markdown editors -- data entry. Thus, a quest to search for a new Markdown editor became necessary. After exhaustively trying all available options, I chose Obsidian. 1) It was blazing fast, 2) made YAML data entry, query, and management easy, 3) synced across devices with an elegant mobile app. 4) The GitHub profile showed a small, highly productive, and philosophical team. 5) Obsidian had a "plugin" ecosystem: anyone could write plugins that would enhance Obsidian functionality, making it the only true platform I could find in the Markdown universe. In addition, 6) it was by default free -- so it was possible to ask people to collaborate without asking them to buy something they hadn't tried.

Trying to unleash the power of GenAI for my projects led me to an adjacent and intertwined decision: I will build software tools for myself by myself, and be willing to do it just for fun.  This decision felt dangerous and counterintuitive at the time, informed by the painful experience of teaching myself to code three times leading buggy prototypes, impossible to read error messages, and either rage quitting or getting kicked of the developer team as soon as CEO became an actual role at whatever startup I was on at the time. 

Vibe Coding was in full swing with the YouTube influencer community, and I knew I was on an overhyped bandwagon. But, bias towards action, just do it. My first months were a number of misadventures and dead-ends.  I built a demo data augmentation application on Bolt (again on Lovable) and found that code assistant AI has severe limitations and overwrites progress if managed poorly. I tried writing Python scripts to clean metadata, which most often caused more problems. I tried to write a filesystem observer that would watch directories and automagically generate proper metadata templates, only to get into a circular fight with race conditions and bugs that only revealed themselves after a bunch of files were corrupted and I happened to notice long after the corruptions. The frustration made me much more religious with version control for both code and content by necessity. (I had over 3,021 commits on GitHub in 2025 vs 258 in 2024.) 

After two months of headaches and what felt like yak shaving -- negative productivity with valid rationale -- I had an epiphany: I could write Obsidian plugins!  The functionality I was attempting in scripts and filesystem observers would better serve me inside my Markdown notebook.  After trying to build it as one application I called “Content Farm,” it got unwieldy and the modal UI was crowded, so I simplified by isolating clusters of functionality into specific plugins.  I spent about a week on each, and ended up with a suite of plugins: 1) Filestarter applies metadata templates and fills proprieties with pre-filled values, 2) Perplexed leverages the Perplexity and Perplexica APIs to generate content, fetches answers to questions, and applies extended markdown reference standards. 3) OpenGraph Fetcher fetches OpenGraph live URLs from sites and articles to include logos, favicon, share images, or article metadata. 4) Image Gin requests banner, portrait, and square images according to an image prompt in frontmatter, downloads generated images, 5) CiteWide assures proper extended markdown citation and reference definition formatting, as well as assigns unique hex values to each unique reference source across all markdown files within a file or all files in a directory. 6) Plunk-It sends a markdown file to Plunk, an open source email list system, applies HTML/CSS style templates, and sends the content as an email to either email addresses or lists of email addresses. “Content Farm” is now a name for the set of plugins, and a project page that shows how these all work together to rapidly generate rigorous content, (https://www.lossless.group/projects/gallery/content-farm).

While the Content Farm suite of Obsidian plugins had helped me do all kinds of market research and content drafting for my strategy consulting project for a large, multinational company — the value was indirect and largely personal.  But towards the end of 2025, I was suddenly a 'consultant' to several emerging manager venture capital firms, and two of these clients needed to backfill investment memorandums for their datarooms as they fundraise with more inquiring potential capital providers. One client needed around a dozen, another client not only similar materials on 20 portfolio companies -- but they also needed materials on 11 pipeline companies polished enough to share with capital providers. While I have had many last minute fire drills generating investment materials and writing investment memorandums, many of these companies were outside my area of expertise. I could write one a day for over a month, or I could use my Content Farm suite to move faster. Or, I could be more hacker-style lazy and try to build an agent system to use GenAI tools to write draft content on over 40 companies.

Luckily, my 2025 misadventures and dead-ends in building software to use GenAI APIs made imagining an "investment memo orchestrator" (https://github.com/lossless-group/investment-memo-orchestrator) approachable. I used Windsurf and Claude Code to first spec out what it should be, and what various libraries or frameworks to consider. Choosing LangGraph, work in Claude Code went swiftly: within 5 days I could draft 6-15 page investment memos in less than 10 minutes using Perplexity with the research agent, and GPT with the editor agent, and Claude as the agent orchestrator. Another week of work, I got the agents to generate formatted citations and footnotes in extended markdown, use any slide deck or company materials as the primary source, and include key images from the deck. In addition, using HTML and CSS templates then converting to PDF, I could export the output into a final draft in branded PDF. The quality of work that would take me a full workday now took me 15 minutes.

The decision to work entirely in Markdown, Markup, JSON and CSV, and the related decision to build software tools for myself, by myself, and just for fun, had come together in a way that felt a bit magical. The miracle of GenAI had finally fulfilled its promise for me after over a year of tinkering.
