tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Harvey AI.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-08-23
date_modified: 2025-08-23
tags: [Vertical-Wrappers, Vertical-Agents]
site_uuid: eaeb3fcd-b590-4a61-bfe0-1da16efa76b3
publish: true
title: "Harvey AI"
slug: harvey-ai
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
---




***
> [!info] **Perplexity Query** (2025-08-23T23:30:32.839Z)
> **Question:**
> What does Harvey AI do?  Why is it being valued so highly?  What kind of Vertical Wrapper did they create and what is their feature set?
> 
> ### **Response from sonar-pro**:

Harvey AI is a **generative artificial intelligence platform specialized for the legal industry** that assists law firms and in-house legal teams with tasks such as legal research, contract analysis, drafting, due diligence, and workflow automation. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8] Its exceptionally high valuation is due to its focus on deeply integrating advanced AI with domain-specific legal workflows, custom models for clients, and partnership with top-tier investors and legal practitioners. [^8gmm9f] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]

---

### What does Harvey AI do?

- **Domain-specific legal AI**: Harvey AI is built on top of large language models (LLMs) from OpenAI, with additional fine-tuning using legal reference materials, case law, and—critically—private firm data such as templates and work products. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Automated legal tasks**: Core functionality includes contract analysis, due diligence, litigation support, regulatory compliance checks, research, drafting of documents, and automated intake/population of legal forms. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^1p2qc8]  
  *See ![Relevant diagram or illustration related to the topic](https://www.harvey.ai/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2F07s0r5r6%2Fproduction%2F7f73b08e25dc322155081e65faea8d57cee1f92b-1108x1108.png%3Fauto%3Dformat&w=3840&q=90) for an overview.*
- **Customizable to each firm**: Law firms can further train Harvey with their own proprietary documents, enabling nuanced contextual accuracy similar to onboarding a new team member. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Integration and workflow**: Harvey can be embedded into existing legal tech stacks, with support for integration into platforms like Microsoft Azure and advanced workflow automation. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Specialization for practice areas**: Offers tailored models for different legal specialties (e.g., corporate, IP, litigation), adapting outputs to local jurisdiction and specific practice needs.

---

### Why is Harvey winning the Scale-Up?

- **Product-Market Fit in a High-Stakes Vertical**: Legal services involve high-value, high-stakes, and data-intensive workflows. Automating even a small portion delivers immense time and cost savings, which translates to high willingness to pay among top-tier clients. [^8gmm9f] [^aaux2l] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]
- **Focus on Security and Customization**: Harvey allows training on highly sensitive, firm-specific data while maintaining data privacy—a critical requirement for legal workflows. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Elite Customer Base**: Adoption or piloting by "elite law firms and professional service providers" signals trust and strong defensibility in this vertical, boosting investor confidence. [^1p2qc8]
- **Founders' pedigree and strategic investment**: The founding team combines deep AI research (ex-Google Brain, DeepMind, Meta AI) with practical legal expertise, and the company is backed by OpenAI, Sequoia Capital, and other premier investors. [^8gmm9f] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]
- **Early market leadership**: Harvey’s role as an early mover with a specialized, legally aware AI differentiates it from generic LLM solutions, giving it a defensible position as legal adopts AI at scale. [^aaux2l] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]  
  *See ![Practical example or use case visualization](https://www.lawnext.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Harvey-Home-11-23-22.png) illustrating Harvey automating contract review.*

---

### What kind of Vertical Wrapper did they create?

- **Vertical Wrapper**: Harvey created a "vertical wrapper" by embedding general-purpose LLMs within a domain-specialized environment for law firms. This means:
    - The foundational LLM is tuned with vast amounts of legal data (case law, precedent, regulations).
    - Firms add their own proprietary documents, ensuring contextual outputs that meet firm standards—a process akin to onboarding a new associate’s workflow patterns. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]  
      *![Additional supporting visual content](https://www.lawnext.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/harvey-v-harvey.png) could depict this multi-layered model training pipeline.*
    - Harvey provides UIs, workflow automation, security, and integration specifically for the legal sector, rather than generic AI outputs.

---

### Feature Set

- **Legal Research**: Fast, accurate answers to legal queries based on a synthesis of internal and external legal documents.
- **Contract Analysis**: Automated review, risk identification, and clause extraction/highlighting.
- **Drafting Support**: Creation and revision of contracts, filings, and briefs in firm-adapted language.
- **Due Diligence Automation**: Document review and data extraction for faster, more comprehensive diligence.
- **Regulatory Compliance**: Automated checks for adherence to relevant laws and industry best practices.
- **Workflow Automation**: Intake forms, pre-population of documents, task assignment, and more.
- **Integrations/API**: Plugs into existing document and matter management systems, with secure enterprise deployment options.

---

Harvey's unique value stems from its combination of advanced generative AI, rigorous domain adaptation, and deep integration into the legal workflow, all delivered with enterprise-grade security and customization. [^8gmm9f] [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]

***


### Citations

[^8gmm9f]: 2025, Jul 25. [Harvey Business Breakdown & Founding Story - Contrary Research](https://research.contrary.com/company/harvey). Published: 2025-07-24 | Updated: 2025-07-25

[^aaux2l]: 2025, Jul 29. [Harvey AI for Legal Professionals: Features, Benefits and More - Clio](https://www.clio.com/blog/harvey-ai-legal/). Published: 2025-07-29 | Updated: 2025-07-29

[^k12ara]: 2025, Aug 20. [Harvey AI: What We Know About the Company So Far - Gavel](https://www.gavel.io/resources/harvey-ai-what-we-know-about-the-company-so-far). Published: 2025-05-23 | Updated: 2025-08-20

[^trm60z]: 2025, May 17. [Harvey (software) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvey_(software)). Published: 2025-01-22 | Updated: 2025-05-17

[^1p2qc8]: 2025, May 13. [Harvey - Sequoia Capital](https://www.sequoiacap.com/companies/harvey/). Published: 2025-02-10 | Updated: 2025-05-13

Commit message:

enhance(content): enhance content on CPG, essays, vocab
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Logistics AI.md
	modified:   essays/Evolutions in Managing Large Codebases.md
	modified:   essays/From Qualitative Love to Quantitative Love.md
	modified:   essays/Opinionated Engineering.md
	modified:   essays/Someone's Gotta Keep Up with It.md
	modified:   essays/Technology wants to be Emergent.md
	modified:   essays/The Geography of Innovation.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/market-maps/The Future of CPG.md
	modified:   moc/Hypernova.md
	modified:   projects/Augment-It/Specs/Data Augmentation Workflow with Microfrontends.md
	new file:   sources/Reports/The_Impact_of_Artificial_Intelligence_Technology_o.pdf
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Infrastructure/Janction.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Harvey AI.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Levity AI.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/PromptSignal.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Data Augmenters/Unstructured.io.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Denser AI.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Generative AI/Beautiful.ai.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Knowledge AI/Epsilla.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/Greptile.md
	new file:   vocabulary/Blockchain.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Computer Vision.md
	new file:   vocabulary/Demand Forecasting.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Internet of Things.md
	new file:   vocabulary/Inventory Management Systems.md

tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Harvey AI.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-08-23
date_modified: 2025-09-23
tags: [Vertical-Wrappers, Vertical-Agents]
site_uuid: eaeb3fcd-b590-4a61-bfe0-1da16efa76b3
publish: true
title: "Harvey AI"
slug: harvey-ai
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
url: "https://www.harvey.ai/"
og_title: "Harvey – Professional Class AI"
og_description: "Harvey is the platform built to meet the standards of the world’s leading professional service firms."
og_image: "https://cdn.sanity.io/images/07s0r5r6/production/5a086e0bb3b2df8aa1c74eefe2abacabc3329025-1200x630.png?q=95&auto=format&dpr=2"
og_favicon: "https://www.harvey.ai/icons/brand-favicon.png"
og_last_fetch: "2025-09-23T23:02:04.699Z"
---




***
> [!info] **Perplexity Query** (2025-08-23T23:30:32.839Z)
> **Question:**
> What does Harvey AI do?  Why is it being valued so highly?  What kind of Vertical Wrapper did they create and what is their feature set?
> 
> ### **Response from sonar-pro**:

Harvey AI is a **generative artificial intelligence platform specialized for the legal industry** that assists law firms and in-house legal teams with tasks such as legal research, contract analysis, drafting, due diligence, and workflow automation. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8] Its exceptionally high valuation is due to its focus on deeply integrating advanced AI with domain-specific legal workflows, custom models for clients, and partnership with top-tier investors and legal practitioners. [^8gmm9f] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]

---

### What does Harvey AI do?

- **Domain-specific legal AI**: Harvey AI is built on top of large language models (LLMs) from OpenAI, with additional fine-tuning using legal reference materials, case law, and—critically—private firm data such as templates and work products. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Automated legal tasks**: Core functionality includes contract analysis, due diligence, litigation support, regulatory compliance checks, research, drafting of documents, and automated intake/population of legal forms. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^1p2qc8]  
  *See ![Relevant diagram or illustration related to the topic](https://www.harvey.ai/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2F07s0r5r6%2Fproduction%2F7f73b08e25dc322155081e65faea8d57cee1f92b-1108x1108.png%3Fauto%3Dformat&w=3840&q=90) for an overview.*
- **Customizable to each firm**: Law firms can further train Harvey with their own proprietary documents, enabling nuanced contextual accuracy similar to onboarding a new team member. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Integration and workflow**: Harvey can be embedded into existing legal tech stacks, with support for integration into platforms like Microsoft Azure and advanced workflow automation. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Specialization for practice areas**: Offers tailored models for different legal specialties (e.g., corporate, IP, litigation), adapting outputs to local jurisdiction and specific practice needs.

---

### Why is Harvey winning the Scale-Up?

- **Product-Market Fit in a High-Stakes Vertical**: Legal services involve high-value, high-stakes, and data-intensive workflows. Automating even a small portion delivers immense time and cost savings, which translates to high willingness to pay among top-tier clients. [^8gmm9f] [^aaux2l] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]
- **Focus on Security and Customization**: Harvey allows training on highly sensitive, firm-specific data while maintaining data privacy—a critical requirement for legal workflows. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]
- **Elite Customer Base**: Adoption or piloting by "elite law firms and professional service providers" signals trust and strong defensibility in this vertical, boosting investor confidence. [^1p2qc8]
- **Founders' pedigree and strategic investment**: The founding team combines deep AI research (ex-Google Brain, DeepMind, Meta AI) with practical legal expertise, and the company is backed by OpenAI, Sequoia Capital, and other premier investors. [^8gmm9f] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]
- **Early market leadership**: Harvey’s role as an early mover with a specialized, legally aware AI differentiates it from generic LLM solutions, giving it a defensible position as legal adopts AI at scale. [^aaux2l] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]  
  *See ![Practical example or use case visualization](https://www.lawnext.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Harvey-Home-11-23-22.png) illustrating Harvey automating contract review.*

---

### What kind of Vertical Wrapper did they create?

- **Vertical Wrapper**: Harvey created a "vertical wrapper" by embedding general-purpose LLMs within a domain-specialized environment for law firms. This means:
    - The foundational LLM is tuned with vast amounts of legal data (case law, precedent, regulations).
    - Firms add their own proprietary documents, ensuring contextual outputs that meet firm standards—a process akin to onboarding a new associate’s workflow patterns. [^aaux2l] [^k12ara]  
      *![Additional supporting visual content](https://www.lawnext.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/harvey-v-harvey.png) could depict this multi-layered model training pipeline.*
    - Harvey provides UIs, workflow automation, security, and integration specifically for the legal sector, rather than generic AI outputs.

---

### Feature Set

- **Legal Research**: Fast, accurate answers to legal queries based on a synthesis of internal and external legal documents.
- **Contract Analysis**: Automated review, risk identification, and clause extraction/highlighting.
- **Drafting Support**: Creation and revision of contracts, filings, and briefs in firm-adapted language.
- **Due Diligence Automation**: Document review and data extraction for faster, more comprehensive diligence.
- **Regulatory Compliance**: Automated checks for adherence to relevant laws and industry best practices.
- **Workflow Automation**: Intake forms, pre-population of documents, task assignment, and more.
- **Integrations/API**: Plugs into existing document and matter management systems, with secure enterprise deployment options.

---

Harvey's unique value stems from its combination of advanced generative AI, rigorous domain adaptation, and deep integration into the legal workflow, all delivered with enterprise-grade security and customization. [^8gmm9f] [^aaux2l] [^k12ara] [^trm60z] [^1p2qc8]

***


### Citations

[^8gmm9f]: 2025, Jul 25. [Harvey Business Breakdown & Founding Story - Contrary Research](https://research.contrary.com/company/harvey). Published: 2025-07-24 | Updated: 2025-07-25

[^aaux2l]: 2025, Jul 29. [Harvey AI for Legal Professionals: Features, Benefits and More - Clio](https://www.clio.com/blog/harvey-ai-legal/). Published: 2025-07-29 | Updated: 2025-07-29

[^k12ara]: 2025, Aug 20. [Harvey AI: What We Know About the Company So Far - Gavel](https://www.gavel.io/resources/harvey-ai-what-we-know-about-the-company-so-far). Published: 2025-05-23 | Updated: 2025-08-20

[^trm60z]: 2025, May 17. [Harvey (software) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvey_(software)). Published: 2025-01-22 | Updated: 2025-05-17

[^1p2qc8]: 2025, May 13. [Harvey - Sequoia Capital](https://www.sequoiacap.com/companies/harvey/). Published: 2025-02-10 | Updated: 2025-05-13
