lost-in-public/explorations/Automating Progess Updates through clever use of AI Code Assistants.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-03-20
date_modified: 2025-07-22
status: To-Do
authors:
  - Michael Staton
site_uuid: a435fac0-54e1-48b9-8e86-36253b845a10
title: "Automating Progess Updates Through Clever Use Of AI Code Assistants"
slug: automating-progess-updates-through-clever-use-of-ai-code-assistants
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
---

```json
{
  "active": "ed6bb4f3bf3e8b99",
  "lastOpenFiles": [
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/JSON Canvas.md",
    "M Series.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-19_01.md",
    "Specs/Clean-Specific-Issues-in-YAML-One-at-a-Time.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-19_02.md",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/data-integrity/Fix-one-YAML-Issue-at-a-Time.md",
    "Tooling/Data Utilities/PowerBI.md",
    "Sources/Books/Bullshit Jobs.md",
    "Sources/Books/Diffusion of Innovations.md",
    "Sources/Books/What Technology Wants.md",
    "Vocabulary/S.O.L.I.D.md",
    "Concepts/State of the Art.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Examples/Adams Prize.md",
    "Concepts/Lossless.md",
    "CSV.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/JSON.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/Markdown.md",
    "Tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/Ravel.md",
    "Tooling/Software Development/Databases/Clickhouse.md",
    "Tooling/Software Development/Databases/Cassandra.md",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/workflow/Write-a-Changelog-Entry.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-17_01.md",
    "Specs/Build-Script-Spec.md",
    "Specs/Cases-and-Corrections-for-YAML-Content-Wide.md",
    "Specs/Get-Known-Errors-and-Fixes.md",
    "Specs/Isolate-Content-Wide-YAML-Corruptions.md",
    "js",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/render-logic",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/code-style",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/workflow",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/data-integrity",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/user-interface",
    "Visuals/For/visualFor__LangChain--Model.svg",
    "Visuals/For",
    "Lost in Public/rag-input",
    "Lost in Public/inspiration-cases",
    "Lost in Public/up-and-running",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-34-42_GNews--Hero.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-30-08_Open-AI--Cookbook.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-54-24_Opera_UI-Improvement--Split-Screen-Mode.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-07-46_GNews_UI-Element--Price-Card.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-55-09_Opera_AI-Models--APIs_App-Store.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-34-54_GNews--API-Docs.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-00-16_GNews_UI-Element--Price-Card.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-57-12_Chat-GPT--App-Store.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-56-00_Open-AI--Usage-Pricing.png",
    "00 - Lossless-at-Laerdal Gameplan/04.1 - AI to Insight Specifications/Visual Specification (Data Augmenter).canvas",
    "Sample Canvas.canvas"
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

fix(yaml): fix yaml in explorations collection
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Context Engineering.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/explorations/Automating Progess Updates through clever use of AI Code Assistants.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/explorations/Foundational Workflow in the Terminal and Command Line.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/explorations/Render-AST-in-Debug.md
	modified:   specs/Project-Routing-Fix-Complete-Implementation.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Harvey AI.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Agentic AI/AgentQL.md
	modified:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Generative AI/Code Generators/Augment Code.md

lost-in-public/explorations/Automating Progess Updates through clever use of AI Code Assistants.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-03-20
date_modified: 2025-08-24
status: To-Do
authors:
  - Michael Staton
site_uuid: a435fac0-54e1-48b9-8e86-36253b845a10
title: Automating Progess Updates Through Clever Use Of AI Code Assistants
slug: automating-progess-updates-through-clever-use-of-ai-code-assistants
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
image_prompt: On the left a startup office with hackers at a whiteboard. Robots representing AI are at a table in the middle, observing and using morse code tappers.  One of them is filming on camera.  They are sending signals and data to the right.
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Automating_Progess_Updates_through_clever_use_of_AI_Code_Assistants_banner_image_1755994793779_7mUBO-Pc2.webp
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Automating_Progess_Updates_through_clever_use_of_AI_Code_Assistants_portrait_image_1755994795759_AtepwiD-W.webp
square_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Automating_Progess_Updates_through_clever_use_of_AI_Code_Assistants_square_image_1755994797819_l3aV47elS.webp
tags:
  - Code-Generators
---



```json
{
  "active": "ed6bb4f3bf3e8b99",
  "lastOpenFiles": [
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/JSON Canvas.md",
    "M Series.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-19_01.md",
    "Specs/Clean-Specific-Issues-in-YAML-One-at-a-Time.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-19_02.md",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/data-integrity/Fix-one-YAML-Issue-at-a-Time.md",
    "Tooling/Data Utilities/PowerBI.md",
    "Sources/Books/Bullshit Jobs.md",
    "Sources/Books/Diffusion of Innovations.md",
    "Sources/Books/What Technology Wants.md",
    "Vocabulary/S.O.L.I.D.md",
    "Concepts/State of the Art.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Examples/Adams Prize.md",
    "Concepts/Lossless.md",
    "CSV.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/JSON.md",
    "Emergent-Innovation/Standards/Markdown.md",
    "Tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/Ravel.md",
    "Tooling/Software Development/Databases/Clickhouse.md",
    "Tooling/Software Development/Databases/Cassandra.md",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/workflow/Write-a-Changelog-Entry.md",
    "Lost in Public/sessions/2025-03-17_01.md",
    "Specs/Build-Script-Spec.md",
    "Specs/Cases-and-Corrections-for-YAML-Content-Wide.md",
    "Specs/Get-Known-Errors-and-Fixes.md",
    "Specs/Isolate-Content-Wide-YAML-Corruptions.md",
    "js",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/render-logic",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/code-style",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/workflow",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/data-integrity",
    "Lost in Public/prompts/user-interface",
    "Visuals/For/visualFor__LangChain--Model.svg",
    "Visuals/For",
    "Lost in Public/rag-input",
    "Lost in Public/inspiration-cases",
    "Lost in Public/up-and-running",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-34-42_GNews--Hero.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-30-08_Open-AI--Cookbook.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-54-24_Opera_UI-Improvement--Split-Screen-Mode.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-07-46_GNews_UI-Element--Price-Card.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-55-09_Opera_AI-Models--APIs_App-Store.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-34-54_GNews--API-Docs.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-00-16_GNews_UI-Element--Price-Card.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 15-57-12_Chat-GPT--App-Store.png",
    "Visuals/Screenshots/Screenshot From 2025-03-18 14-56-00_Open-AI--Usage-Pricing.png",
    "00 - Lossless-at-Laerdal Gameplan/04.1 - AI to Insight Specifications/Visual Specification (Data Augmenter).canvas",
    "Sample Canvas.canvas"
  ]
}
```
