lost-in-public/explorations/Generative AI for Brand Images.md, before:

---
site_uuid: 3597102b-8adb-4793-892d-5cc4245234f0
title: "Manageable User Options"
lede: "Configure and manage user options for build scripts and content processing"
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-04-14
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-14
date_authored_final_draft: null
date_first_published: null
date_last_updated: null
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
status: To-Do
augmented_with: "Windsurf Cascade on Claude 3.5 Sonnet"
category: Explorations
date_created: 2025-04-14
date_modified: 2025-07-28
tags: [Configuration, Build-Scripts, User-Options, Directory-Management, Code-Style]
authors:
  - Michael Staton
publish: true
slug: generative-ai-for-brand-images
---
## Background


## Step-by-Step

1. Check your Python install
```bash
python3 --version
```
2. Check your pip install
```bash
pip3 --version
```
3. Check your virtualenv install
```bash
virtualenv --version
```

If anything's missing, install it.

4. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
```

5. Activate the virtual environment
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
```

6. Install dependencies
```bash
pip3 install requests
pip3 install dotenv
```

7. Create an example file with code examples from the API Docs



8. Run the script
```bash
python3 script.py
```

8. Check the output
```json
{
  "creation_time": "2025-04-15T02:24:01.574783871Z",
  "credits": 40,
  "id": "73a249b2-879e-4240-9973-c6fb1715a882",
  "is_private": true,
  "style": "digital_illustration"
}
```

Commit message:

enhance(content): enhance vocabulary, concepts, market maps, etc
 On branch save/20250807
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   concepts/Half Moons.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/explorations/Generative AI for Brand Images.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/market-maps/AI for Creative Professions.md
	deleted:    organizations/Artlist.md
	new file:   specs/Build-Out-WhatsApp-Plugins-Ecosystem.md
	new file:   tooling/Creative/Artlist.md
	modified:   tooling/Creative/Streamline.md
	new file:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/Rybbit.md
	modified:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/Storyblocks.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevTools/Lucide React.md
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x1024_1754567244.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x2048_1754567239.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_2048x1024_1754567233.png
	new file:   vocabulary/Computer Architecture.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Virtual Phone Systems.md

lost-in-public/explorations/Generative AI for Brand Images.md, after:

---
site_uuid: 3597102b-8adb-4793-892d-5cc4245234f0
title: "Manageable User Options"
lede: "Configure and manage user options for build scripts and content processing"
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-04-14
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-14
date_authored_final_draft: "[]"
date_first_published: "[]"
date_last_updated: "[]"
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
status: To-Do
augmented_with: "Windsurf Cascade on Claude 3.5 Sonnet"
category: Explorations
date_created: 2025-04-14
date_modified: 2025-08-07
tags: [Configuration, Build-Scripts, User-Options, Directory-Management, Code-Style]
authors:
  - Michael Staton
publish: true
slug: generative-ai-for-brand-images
image_prompt: "A robot representing generative AI is Bob Ross the painter from televisions, he has an afro and a Painbrush, and a wall of his work is behind him."
banner_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Generative_AI_for_Brand_Images_banner_image_1754567276174_heQe1JnZd.webp"
portrait_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Generative_AI_for_Brand_Images_portrait_image_1754567278320_KqWNJW3bj.webp"
square_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Generative_AI_for_Brand_Images_square_image_1754567280274_DZ7dC0X2J.webp"
---
###### Related Content
[[lost-in-public/market-maps/AI for Creative Professions|AI for Creative Professions]]
## Background


## Step-by-Step

1. Check your Python install
```bash
python3 --version
```
2. Check your pip install
```bash
pip3 --version
```
3. Check your virtualenv install
```bash
virtualenv --version
```

If anything's missing, install it.

4. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
```

5. Activate the virtual environment
```bash
source .venv/bin/activate
```

6. Install dependencies
```bash
pip3 install requests
pip3 install dotenv
```

7. Create an example file with code examples from the API Docs



8. Run the script
```bash
python3 script.py
```

8. Check the output
```json
{
  "creation_time": "2025-04-15T02:24:01.574783871Z",
  "credits": 40,
  "id": "73a249b2-879e-4240-9973-c6fb1715a882",
  "is_private": true,
  "style": "digital_illustration"
}
```
