tooling/Products/Git.md, before:

---
site_uuid: 9c6dba50-6d21-4799-b46b-9ad198aa5d6b
url: 'https://git-scm.com'
docs_url: 'https://git-scm.com/doc'
og_errors: true
og_last_error: '2025-03-08T20:39:42.148Z'
og_error_message: 'HTTP error 401'
jina_last_request: '2025-03-09T06:45:03.928Z'
jina_error: 'Unexpected token'
image: 'https://git-scm.com/images/logo@2x.png'
site_name: Git
zinger: 'A free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.'
description_site_cp: 'Git is easy to learn and has a tiny footprint with lightning fast performance. It outclasses SCM tools like Subversion, CVS, Perforce, and ClearCase with features like cheap local branching, convenient staging areas, and multiple workflows.'
favicon: 'https://git-scm.com/favicon.ico'
og_fetched_url: 'https://git-scm.com'
og_last_fetch: '2025-05-30T15:38:11.707Z'
date_created: 2025-02-19
date_modified: 2025-05-30
og_screenshot_url: 'https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/screenshots/20250530_Git_og_screenshot.jpeg'
tags: [Products, Developer-Experience, Workflow-Management]
---

## Git Hooks

>Git hooks are scripts that run automatically every time a particular event occurs in a Git repository. They let you customize Git’s internal behavior and trigger customizable actions at key points in the development life cycle. Atlassian[ on Git Hooks](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks#:~:text=Git%20hooks%20are%20scripts%20that,in%20the%20development%20life%20cycle.). 

## Git Branch

### Branch Naming Strategies

Branch names can be anything you’d like. However, your organization or project may have standards outlined for branch naming. For example, naming the branch based on the person responsible for working on the branch and a description or work item:

- username/description
- username/workitem

You can name a branch to indicate the branch’s function, like a feature, bug fix, or hotfix:

- bugfix/description
- feature/feature-name
- hotfix/description

Another branching strategy is having branches dedicated to the different development cycles, like feature or hotfix. As work items come up, you create a branch for that item from its respective branch. Yes, you can create branches from branches! Check out Option 4 below for an example. [^1]

### Git Merge

1.When you switch to main, your files will temporarily show the old state, but don't worry - all your changes are safely stored in your development-temp branch. They're not lost.

The recommended process is:
	1. Switch to main (yes, you'll briefly see the old code)
	2. Immediately merge development-temp into main (which will bring all your new changes into main)
	3. After the merge, main will have all your latest work

This is the standard and safest way to merge branches. Your development-temp branch will still exist afterward, so you can't lose anything. If something goes wrong (which is unlikely), you can always switch back to development-temp where all your work is safe.

```bash
git checkout main
git diff site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md
git merge development-temp --strategy-option theirs
git add site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md
git commit -m "Merge development-temp branch, keeping development-temp version of Postgres.md"
git status
git log --oneline -n 3
git log -n 1
git merge development-temp
```

`git diff site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md`

[^1]: [Git Branching and Merging: A Step-By-Step Guide](https://www.varonis.com/blog/git-branching)

Commit message:

update(specs): update specs related to Data Augmenter
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/04.1 - AI to Insight Specifications/RecordCollector-Tanuj.md
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/Data Augmentation Microfrontends.md
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/Laugment Monorepo Vision Specification.md
	deleted:    client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/PromptManager.md
	new file:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/PromptTemplateManager.md
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/RecordCollector.md
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/RequestReviewer.md
	modified:   client-content/Laerdal/Projects/Laugment/Data-Augmenter-Specification/Visual Specification (Data Augmenter).canvas
	new file:   concepts/Explainers for AI/AI Web Research.md
	modified:   concepts/Version Control.md
	modified:   essays/How GitHub Changed Everything.md
	modified:   tooling/Productivity/Personal Cloud/Jellyfin.md
	modified:   tooling/Products/Git.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/GitLab.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/GitHub.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Programming Languages/Libraries/Zustand.md

tooling/Products/Git.md, after:

---
site_uuid: 9c6dba50-6d21-4799-b46b-9ad198aa5d6b
url: 'https://git-scm.com'
docs_url: 'https://git-scm.com/doc'
og_errors: true
og_last_error: '2025-03-08T20:39:42.148Z'
og_error_message: 'HTTP error 401'
jina_last_request: '2025-03-09T06:45:03.928Z'
jina_error: 'Unexpected token'
image: 'https://git-scm.com/images/logo@2x.png'
site_name: Git
zinger: 'A free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.'
description_site_cp: 'Git is easy to learn and has a tiny footprint with lightning fast performance. It outclasses SCM tools like Subversion, CVS, Perforce, and ClearCase with features like cheap local branching, convenient staging areas, and multiple workflows.'
favicon: 'https://git-scm.com/favicon.ico'
og_fetched_url: 'https://git-scm.com'
og_last_fetch: '2025-05-30T15:38:11.707Z'
date_created: 2025-02-19
date_modified: 2025-07-24
og_screenshot_url: 'https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/screenshots/20250530_Git_og_screenshot.jpeg'
tags: [Products, Developer-Experience, Workflow-Management]
---

## Git Hooks

>Git hooks are scripts that run automatically every time a particular event occurs in a Git repository. They let you customize Git’s internal behavior and trigger customizable actions at key points in the development life cycle. Atlassian[ on Git Hooks](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-hooks#:~:text=Git%20hooks%20are%20scripts%20that,in%20the%20development%20life%20cycle.). 

#### [Image Description]
- One widely cited graphic (not included here) shows Git’s adoption at almost 94%, with a small sliver for SVN and other tools—demonstrating its dominance in developer surveys[5][3].
- Another illustrative chart (not shown) tracks adoption growth: Git rises from 69.3% (2015) to 88.4% (2018), while alternatives decline[3].

## Git Branch

### Branch Naming Strategies

Branch names can be anything you’d like. However, your organization or project may have standards outlined for branch naming. For example, naming the branch based on the person responsible for working on the branch and a description or work item:

- username/description
- username/workitem

You can name a branch to indicate the branch’s function, like a feature, bug fix, or hotfix:

- bugfix/description
- feature/feature-name
- hotfix/description

Another branching strategy is having branches dedicated to the different development cycles, like feature or hotfix. As work items come up, you create a branch for that item from its respective branch. Yes, you can create branches from branches! Check out Option 4 below for an example. [^1]

### Git Merge

1.When you switch to main, your files will temporarily show the old state, but don't worry - all your changes are safely stored in your development-temp branch. They're not lost.

The recommended process is:
	1. Switch to main (yes, you'll briefly see the old code)
	2. Immediately merge development-temp into main (which will bring all your new changes into main)
	3. After the merge, main will have all your latest work

This is the standard and safest way to merge branches. Your development-temp branch will still exist afterward, so you can't lose anything. If something goes wrong (which is unlikely), you can always switch back to development-temp where all your work is safe.

```bash
git checkout main
git diff site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md
git merge development-temp --strategy-option theirs
git add site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md
git commit -m "Merge development-temp branch, keeping development-temp version of Postgres.md"
git status
git log --oneline -n 3
git log -n 1
git merge development-temp
```

`git diff site/src/content/tooling/Software\ Development/Databases/Postgres.md`

[^1]: [Git Branching and Merging: A Step-By-Step Guide](https://www.varonis.com/blog/git-branching)
