essays/Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up.md, before:

---
date_created: 2024-12-18
date_modified: 2025-06-16
site_uuid: a8ae951d-9235-4378-b399-9c4dbd79da84
title: When to Partner with a Startup?  When it's time for them to Scale Up
lede: Timing is critical, because startups are not prepared to partner and scale ups will choose partners quickly.
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-01-21
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-06-08
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.2
status: To-Do
augmented_with: Perplexica AI
category: Product-Development
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_portraitimage_Consistent-Go-to-Market_459c7fb9-154c-4faf-86b5-decbdcb85850_LVhtpt9B1.jpg
image_prompt: A business team gathered around a whiteboard, mapping out a go-to-market strategy with colorful sticky notes and flowcharts, while a product prototype sits on the table. The mood is strategic, energetic, and collaborative.
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_bannerimage_Consistent-Go-to-Market_641a38ef-70d6-4639-be05-3e27c4c650de_dwSdKlu2H.jpg
tags: [Demand-Generation, Marketing-Automation]
authors:
  - Michael Staton
slug: partnering-with-startups-at-scale-up
---

# When to try to Partner is the question


## Startups don't have the manpower to Partner.

Startups are often painfully small teams, even when they seem to have a lot of traction.


### Conversations beyond hypothetical futures are a waste of time

Commit message:

new(misc): new content across clients, Hypernova Parslee
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   client-content/Hypernova/opengraph.json
	modified:   client-content/Parselee/Projects/Job Description Recommendation.md
	modified:   essays/Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/blueprints/Maintain-a-Map-of-Content-Paradigm.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/issue-resolution/MOC-Multi-Collection-Filtering-Fix.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/market-maps/The Future of CPG.md
	modified:   moc/Hypernova.md
	modified:   moc/Laerdal.md
	modified:   moc/Param.md
	deleted:    moc/Parselee.md
	new file:   moc/Parslee.md
	modified:   moc/Tonguc.md
	new file:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/High Level.md
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x1024_1758826661.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x2048_1758826653.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_2048x1024_1758826645.png
	modified:   vocabulary/API Authentication.md
	new file:   vocabulary/Deck Kit.md

essays/Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up.md, after:

---
date_created: 2024-12-18
date_modified: 2025-09-25
site_uuid: a8ae951d-9235-4378-b399-9c4dbd79da84
title: When to Partner with a Startup?  When it's time for them to Scale Up
lede: Timing is critical, because startups are not prepared to partner and scale ups will choose partners quickly.
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-01-21
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-06-08
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.2
status: To-Do
augmented_with: Perplexica AI
category: Product-Development
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_portraitimage_Consistent-Go-to-Market_459c7fb9-154c-4faf-86b5-decbdcb85850_LVhtpt9B1.jpg
image_prompt: A business team gathered around a whiteboard, mapping out a go-to-market strategy with colorful sticky notes and flowcharts, while a product prototype sits on the table. The mood is strategic, energetic, and collaborative.
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_bannerimage_Consistent-Go-to-Market_641a38ef-70d6-4639-be05-3e27c4c650de_dwSdKlu2H.jpg
tags: [Demand-Generation, Marketing-Automation]
authors:
  - Michael Staton
slug: partnering-with-startups-at-scale-up
---

# Strategic Investors want to Partner
Strategic investors usually see a way to benefit from investing in a startup.  However, they usually ask for this benefit prematurely, over-estimating the mutual capacity to work together.  

Conditional investments don't work in the short run, but they do work in the long run.  

# When to try to Partner is the question


## Startups don't have the manpower to Partner.

Startups are often painfully small teams, even when they seem to have a lot of traction.


### Conversations beyond hypothetical futures are a waste of time
