essays/The New Software Development Playbook.md, before:

---
publish: true
date_created: 2025-05-12
date_modified: 2025-09-17
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-01-04
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-24
site_uuid: e0ef7542-ebb4-4287-989c-67260c0e42ca
title: The New Software Development Playbook
slug: the-new-software-development-playbook
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
lede: AI has changed how to develop software, and in many surprising ways.
image_prompt: A football team is in a locker room, the locker room has lockers and footballs and jerseys.  Half the team is made up of robots representing AI, and half of the team are startup employees with laptops.  The coach is on the whiteboard with diagrams on the left side of the white board, and code on the right side of the whiteboard.
square_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_square_image_1757950186682_CRP4pgt0y.webp?updatedAt=1757950188511
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_banner_image_1757950399372_uk1Lek-No.webp
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_portrait_image_1757950401481_U2igegCit.webp
tags: [State-of-the-Art, Continuous-Deployment, Continuous-Integration, Continuous-Refactoring, Testing-Suites, Code-Generators]
---

Developers will need to adapt their workflows accordingly, embracing new tools like Code Generator AI while ensuring they maintain rigorous testing protocols for quality assurance.

Developers will need to become familiar with AI-generated code, understanding its strengths and weaknesses in order to effectively integrate it into their workflow. This involves not only technical knowledge but also a shift in mindset as they adapt to this new co-worker.

https://youtu.be/8rABwKRsec4?si=XfMHIXhMpZcSbwVl
# Commit to Continuous Deployment
[[concepts/Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment|Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment]] have become [[concepts/State of the Art|State of the Art]] practice in Software Development. 

These practices aim at integrating code changes as often as possible to detect issues early in the development process. Continuous Deployment ensures that new changes to software are automatically tested and deployed, allowing for quick feedback and fast delivery of updates.

[[Vocabulary/Agile|Agile]] has been widely adopted by many organizations. This approach promotes adaptive planning, early delivery, continual improvement and encourages rapid and flexible response to change.

The use of [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices Architecture]] architecture is also increasing. Microservices allow for the breakdown of applications into smaller, loosely coupled services which can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently. This increases flexibility and efficiency in software development.

[[Vocabulary/Dev Ops|DevOps]] is another important practice that merges the roles of development and operations teams to achieve a more streamlined workflow. This collaboration helps in reducing silos, promoting shared responsibility, enhancing communication, and improving the speed and quality of software delivery.

[[concepts/Test-Driven Development|Test-Driven Development]] (TDD) is a strategy where tests are written before code is developed. TDD helps ensure that all code functions as expected and can catch bugs early in the development process.

[[concepts/Explainers for AI/Artificial Intelligence|Artificial Intelligence]] (AI) and [[Vocabulary/Machine Learning|Machine Learning]] (ML) techniques are increasingly being used in software development for predictive analytics, automation of testing processes, improving code quality among other things.

In conclusion, the new software development playbook involves adopting modern practices such as Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD), Agile Development, Microservices architecture, DevOps culture, Cloud Computing solutions along with Test Driven Development (TDD), and leveraging AI/ML techniques for improved efficiency and effectiveness.  

## Commit to Microservices and Microfrontends

Microservices, Microfrontends, and Platform Engineering have become necessary practices as Code Generator AI has dramatically increased the volume of output an engineer can produce, even junior engineers, lazy engineers, even designers and product managers.

 1. **The Rise of Code Generator AI**: The advent of [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Code Generators|Code Generator AI]] has revolutionized the way software is developed. This technology has significantly increased the volume of output that a software engineer can produce, regardless of their level of expertise. Even designers and product managers can now contribute to coding tasks.

2. **The Emergence of Microservices**: In response to this increase in coding productivity, practices such as microservices have become essential. Microservices architecture involves developing applications as a collection of small services, each running in its process and communicating with lightweight mechanisms. This approach allows for better scalability and flexibility.

3. **The Shift Toward Microfrontends**: Similarly, microfrontends have also gained prominence in the software development scene. This practice involves breaking up a monolithic frontend app into smaller, more manageable pieces that can be developed and deployed independently.

4. **The Importance of [[concepts/Platform Engineering|Platform Engineering]]**: Alongside these changes, platform engineering has emerged as a critical practice in modern software development. Platform engineers build and manage the infrastructure that supports application development and deployment.

5. **Adapting to the New Playbook**: Given these changes, it is crucial for organizations to adapt to this new 'playbook' for software development. By embracing practices like microservices, microfrontends, platform engineering, and leveraging Code Generator AI's potential, organizations can stay ahead in the rapidly evolving tech landscape.
  
6. **Upskilling for the Future**: As these practices continue to reshape the industry, there's an increasing need for professionals skilled in these areas. Therefore, both organizations and individuals need to invest in learning these skills to stay competitive in the future.
  
7. **Challenges & Opportunities Ahead**: While there are immense benefits associated with these practices, implementing them also comes with challenges like managing inter-service communication or ensuring consistent user experience across all micro-frontends. However, overcoming these challenges can open up significant opportunities for organizations. 
  

## Commit to Test-Driven Development

Test Driven Development will be even more necessary, as a first and hard principle, for technology organizations, even startups who usually shirk it well into maturity.  The reason: Code Generator AI.

1. Code Generators will produce so much code that even the most prolific engineering managers will not be able to manage the code review process without it.   

2. Unit Tests and Integration Tests actually become the acceptance criteria that keeps Code Generator AI from hallucinating and breaking things. Generated code must pass these tests before it is considered valid, and the Code Generators, particularly as they develop task-based approaches and transparent reasoning, which actually iterate until everything passes. 

3. Acceptance Criteria: In this new playbook, unit tests and integration tests serve as acceptance criteria for Code Generator AI. This means that the 

4. Preventing Breakdowns: This approach prevents Code Generator AI from generating faulty or inefficient code – colloquially referred to as "hallucinating" – that could potentially break things in the software product.

This strategy not only enhances the reliability and performance of software products but also reduces the time required for manual coding and testing, leading to faster delivery times.

6. Future Trends: As AI continues to evolve, its role in software development will continue to grow. 
  
The new software development playbook brings together cutting-edge technology with proven testing methodologies, creating a powerful combination that promises increased efficiency, improved product quality, and faster delivery times for software projects.

## Master Version Control or Source Control Management

Mastering Version Control practices and Source Control Management tools, particularly Git but also visual apps like GitKraken or AppMapp become paramount now that the rubicon of Code Generator AI has been crossed.  The reason: Code Generators go rogue more often than not. 

Version Control and Source Control Management tools are crucial in the new era of Code Generator AI. They help manage the large volumes of code that can be overlooked, redundant, or violate conventions due to the limitations of context windows. 

The shift to a more automated development process requires a new playbook. This includes being able to quickly identify changes made by AI, managing multiple versions of code, and preventing unnecessary library installations, continuous refactoring, coping with many active branches merging, rebasing, forking, and true pull requests.

This also opens up a new set of challenges and opportunities for human developers. They must now learn to work hand-in-hand with AI, leveraging it to automate mundane tasks while focusing on high-level strategy and problem-solving.

The playbook also needs to address potential ethical and security concerns associated with using AI in software development. Clear guidelines must be established on how data is used and protected, as well as how decisions made by the AI are reviewed and validated.

Mastering Version Control practices and Source Control Management tools is essential in this new era of software development. With the right playbook in place, developers can harness the power of Code Generator AI while mitigating its potential drawbacks.

Commit message:

update(content): update content to latest
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   essays/A Theory of Lossless Innovation.md
	modified:   essays/The New Software Development Playbook.md
	modified:   projects/Augment-It/Specs/Data Augmentation Workflow with Microfrontends.md
	new file:   tooling/Productivity/Slides.com.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Programming Languages/Libraries/Reveal.js.md

essays/The New Software Development Playbook.md, after:

---
publish: true
date_created: 2025-05-12
date_modified: 2025-09-24
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-01-04
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-24
site_uuid: e0ef7542-ebb4-4287-989c-67260c0e42ca
title: The New Software Development Playbook
slug: the-new-software-development-playbook
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
lede: AI has changed how to develop software, and in many surprising ways.
image_prompt: A football team is in a locker room, the locker room has lockers and footballs and jerseys.  Half the team is made up of robots representing AI, and half of the team are startup employees with laptops.  The coach is on the whiteboard with diagrams on the left side of the white board, and code on the right side of the whiteboard.
square_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_square_image_1757950186682_CRP4pgt0y.webp?updatedAt=1757950188511
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_banner_image_1757950399372_uk1Lek-No.webp
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/2025-sept/The_New_Software_Development_Playbook_portrait_image_1757950401481_U2igegCit.webp
tags: [State-of-the-Art, Continuous-Deployment, Continuous-Integration, Continuous-Refactoring, Testing-Suites, Code-Generators]
---

Developers will need to adapt their workflows accordingly, embracing new tools like Code Generator AI while ensuring they maintain rigorous testing protocols for quality assurance.

Developers will need to become familiar with AI-generated code, understanding its strengths and weaknesses in order to effectively integrate it into their workflow. This involves not only technical knowledge but also a shift in mindset as they adapt to this new co-worker.

https://youtu.be/8rABwKRsec4?si=XfMHIXhMpZcSbwVl

# Commit to Documentation First Development
Over the past many years, hacker culture and fast-moving startups have generally treated documentation both internal and external as the afterthought.  No more.  It is now the forethought.  The only way to cooperate with [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Code Generators|Code Generators]] effectively is to create living documentation before, during, and immediately after any implementation in an iterative cycle.  

# Commit to Continuous Deployment
[[concepts/Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment|Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment]] have become [[concepts/State of the Art|State of the Art]] practice in Software Development. 

These practices aim at integrating code changes as often as possible to detect issues early in the development process. Continuous Deployment ensures that new changes to software are automatically tested and deployed, allowing for quick feedback and fast delivery of updates.

[[Vocabulary/Agile|Agile]] has been widely adopted by many organizations. This approach promotes adaptive planning, early delivery, continual improvement and encourages rapid and flexible response to change.

The use of [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices Architecture]] architecture is also increasing. Microservices allow for the breakdown of applications into smaller, loosely coupled services which can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently. This increases flexibility and efficiency in software development.

[[Vocabulary/Dev Ops|DevOps]] is another important practice that merges the roles of development and operations teams to achieve a more streamlined workflow. This collaboration helps in reducing silos, promoting shared responsibility, enhancing communication, and improving the speed and quality of software delivery.

[[concepts/Test-Driven Development|Test-Driven Development]] (TDD) is a strategy where tests are written before code is developed. TDD helps ensure that all code functions as expected and can catch bugs early in the development process.

[[concepts/Explainers for AI/Artificial Intelligence|Artificial Intelligence]] (AI) and [[Vocabulary/Machine Learning|Machine Learning]] (ML) techniques are increasingly being used in software development for predictive analytics, automation of testing processes, improving code quality among other things.

In conclusion, the new software development playbook involves adopting modern practices such as Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD), Agile Development, Microservices architecture, DevOps culture, Cloud Computing solutions along with Test Driven Development (TDD), and leveraging AI/ML techniques for improved efficiency and effectiveness.  

## Commit to Microservices and Microfrontends

Microservices, Microfrontends, and Platform Engineering have become necessary practices as Code Generator AI has dramatically increased the volume of output an engineer can produce, even junior engineers, lazy engineers, even designers and product managers.

 1. **The Rise of Code Generator AI**: The advent of [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Code Generators|Code Generator AI]] has revolutionized the way software is developed. This technology has significantly increased the volume of output that a software engineer can produce, regardless of their level of expertise. Even designers and product managers can now contribute to coding tasks.

2. **The Emergence of Microservices**: In response to this increase in coding productivity, practices such as microservices have become essential. Microservices architecture involves developing applications as a collection of small services, each running in its process and communicating with lightweight mechanisms. This approach allows for better scalability and flexibility.

3. **The Shift Toward Microfrontends**: Similarly, microfrontends have also gained prominence in the software development scene. This practice involves breaking up a monolithic frontend app into smaller, more manageable pieces that can be developed and deployed independently.

4. **The Importance of [[concepts/Platform Engineering|Platform Engineering]]**: Alongside these changes, platform engineering has emerged as a critical practice in modern software development. Platform engineers build and manage the infrastructure that supports application development and deployment.

5. **Adapting to the New Playbook**: Given these changes, it is crucial for organizations to adapt to this new 'playbook' for software development. By embracing practices like microservices, microfrontends, platform engineering, and leveraging Code Generator AI's potential, organizations can stay ahead in the rapidly evolving tech landscape.
  
6. **Upskilling for the Future**: As these practices continue to reshape the industry, there's an increasing need for professionals skilled in these areas. Therefore, both organizations and individuals need to invest in learning these skills to stay competitive in the future.
  
7. **Challenges & Opportunities Ahead**: While there are immense benefits associated with these practices, implementing them also comes with challenges like managing inter-service communication or ensuring consistent user experience across all micro-frontends. However, overcoming these challenges can open up significant opportunities for organizations. 
  

## Commit to Test-Driven Development

Test Driven Development will be even more necessary, as a first and hard principle, for technology organizations, even startups who usually shirk it well into maturity.  The reason: Code Generator AI.

1. Code Generators will produce so much code that even the most prolific engineering managers will not be able to manage the code review process without it.   

2. Unit Tests and Integration Tests actually become the acceptance criteria that keeps Code Generator AI from hallucinating and breaking things. Generated code must pass these tests before it is considered valid, and the Code Generators, particularly as they develop task-based approaches and transparent reasoning, which actually iterate until everything passes. 

3. Acceptance Criteria: In this new playbook, unit tests and integration tests serve as acceptance criteria for Code Generator AI. This means that the 

4. Preventing Breakdowns: This approach prevents Code Generator AI from generating faulty or inefficient code – colloquially referred to as "hallucinating" – that could potentially break things in the software product.

This strategy not only enhances the reliability and performance of software products but also reduces the time required for manual coding and testing, leading to faster delivery times.

6. Future Trends: As AI continues to evolve, its role in software development will continue to grow. 
  
The new software development playbook brings together cutting-edge technology with proven testing methodologies, creating a powerful combination that promises increased efficiency, improved product quality, and faster delivery times for software projects.

## Master Version Control or Source Control Management

Mastering Version Control practices and Source Control Management tools, particularly Git but also visual apps like GitKraken or AppMapp become paramount now that the rubicon of Code Generator AI has been crossed.  The reason: Code Generators go rogue more often than not. 

Version Control and Source Control Management tools are crucial in the new era of Code Generator AI. They help manage the large volumes of code that can be overlooked, redundant, or violate conventions due to the limitations of context windows. 

The shift to a more automated development process requires a new playbook. This includes being able to quickly identify changes made by AI, managing multiple versions of code, and preventing unnecessary library installations, continuous refactoring, coping with many active branches merging, rebasing, forking, and true pull requests.

This also opens up a new set of challenges and opportunities for human developers. They must now learn to work hand-in-hand with AI, leveraging it to automate mundane tasks while focusing on high-level strategy and problem-solving.

The playbook also needs to address potential ethical and security concerns associated with using AI in software development. Clear guidelines must be established on how data is used and protected, as well as how decisions made by the AI are reviewed and validated.

Mastering Version Control practices and Source Control Management tools is essential in this new era of software development. With the right playbook in place, developers can harness the power of Code Generator AI while mitigating its potential drawbacks.
