essays/The Quest for Better Batteries.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-04-15
date_modified: 2025-04-28
site_uuid: ecd2eff9-ef1a-475f-9b30-1c33c64ae8a6
title: The Quest for Better Batteries
lede: "The race for better batteries powers the future—every breakthrough could change the world."
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-04-15
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-24
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
status: To-Do
augmented_with: Perplexica AI
category: 'Adjacent Possible'
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_portraitimage_The-Quest-for-Better-Batteries_33382ca8-da03-4acc-9d5a-be0c685d7d91_8NJU73YC4.jpg
image_prompt: "A lineup of futuristic batteries glowing with energy, set against a backdrop of electric vehicles, smartphones, and renewable energy grids. The mood is high-tech, optimistic, and energetic."
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_bannerimage_The-Quest-for-Better-Batteries_72c5fea1-0974-4819-b170-1a56f036cc32_bK5HfychK.jpg
tags: [Technology-Trends, Near-Future-Anticipation]
authors: 
  - Michael Staton
---

2023, May 10. [How Sodium-Ion Batteries May Challenge Lithium](https://youtu.be/RQE56ksVBB4?si=eKHm0ph7iuG3egdd). CNBC, [[YouTube]]

https://youtu.be/BcoN2bdACGA?si=ZpW_ld6CHJAgsNUZ

https://youtu.be/PwhhYceuFjM?si=QAJm6G8C5qfpNvYX



https://youtu.be/3_NCnxO1KLY?si=2A5NnB1TufH1Wq2y

https://youtu.be/efDTP5SEdlo?si=LqtwcSQfoUbU4rCL

https://youtu.be/qZ8z5tFzuIw?si=cMy9cG1pEDaxzuha

https://youtu.be/AzU78eq3Kzw?si=3BbQqEy-mkECPDlR

https://youtu.be/6lc3-LV7Gfo?si=u4qNUti6NKxKXHiX

https://youtu.be/gFCQVajEONs?si=X3tnY7RI1CRQBx_q

https://youtu.be/tjo4J6l2Z8Q?si=YbtNgUbegUao2sep

https://youtu.be/J-ceLIa_N10?si=sbuiHl-6ieNAP0Cl

Commit message:

enhance(essays): enhance essays Holacracy and Batteries
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   essays/Holacracy-Inspired Reorganization.md
	modified:   essays/The Quest for Better Batteries.md

essays/The Quest for Better Batteries.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-04-15
date_modified: 2025-07-19
site_uuid: ecd2eff9-ef1a-475f-9b30-1c33c64ae8a6
title: The Quest for Better Batteries
lede: "The race for better batteries powers the future—every breakthrough could change the world."
date_authored_initial_draft: 2025-04-15
date_authored_current_draft: 2025-04-24
at_semantic_version: 0.0.0.1
status: To-Do
augmented_with: Perplexica AI
category: 'Adjacent Possible'
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_portraitimage_The-Quest-for-Better-Batteries_33382ca8-da03-4acc-9d5a-be0c685d7d91_8NJU73YC4.jpg
image_prompt: "A lineup of futuristic batteries glowing with energy, set against a backdrop of electric vehicles, smartphones, and renewable energy grids. The mood is high-tech, optimistic, and energetic."
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/essays/2025-05-04_bannerimage_The-Quest-for-Better-Batteries_72c5fea1-0974-4819-b170-1a56f036cc32_bK5HfychK.jpg
tags: [Technology-Trends, Near-Future-Anticipation]
authors:
  - Michael Staton
---

2023, May 10. [How Sodium-Ion Batteries May Challenge Lithium](https://youtu.be/RQE56ksVBB4?si=eKHm0ph7iuG3egdd). CNBC, [[YouTube]]

https://youtu.be/BcoN2bdACGA?si=ZpW_ld6CHJAgsNUZ

https://youtu.be/PwhhYceuFjM?si=QAJm6G8C5qfpNvYX



https://youtu.be/3_NCnxO1KLY?si=2A5NnB1TufH1Wq2y

https://youtu.be/efDTP5SEdlo?si=LqtwcSQfoUbU4rCL

https://youtu.be/qZ8z5tFzuIw?si=cMy9cG1pEDaxzuha

https://youtu.be/AzU78eq3Kzw?si=3BbQqEy-mkECPDlR

https://youtu.be/6lc3-LV7Gfo?si=u4qNUti6NKxKXHiX

https://youtu.be/gFCQVajEONs?si=X3tnY7RI1CRQBx_q

https://youtu.be/tjo4J6l2Z8Q?si=YbtNgUbegUao2sep

https://youtu.be/J-ceLIa_N10?si=sbuiHl-6ieNAP0Cl


**Error:** HTTP error! status: 400

***


***
## Perplexity Deep Research Query (2025-07-19T19:49:50.983Z)
**Question:** In cutting edge technology, including AI, Data Centers, Mobile Phones, Laptops, and even Energy Grids, the conversation seems to keep going back to energy storage. 

We have been running up against limitations with Lithium Ion batteries. Describe those limitations. 

Please highlight many different promising designs and patents and experiments for new types of energy storage.}

Expound on the idea that "we are on the verge of a battery breakthrough" and feel free to include wildly different types of batteries for wildly different use cases. 

Please include images in your response object.
**Model:** sonar-deep-research

🔍 **Conducting exhaustive research across hundreds of sources...**
*This may take 30-60 seconds for comprehensive analysis.*

### **Deep Research Analysis**:
