moc/Hypernova.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-08-09
date_modified: 2025-09-25
---
:::features
- Reader
- Portfolio
:::

:::portfolio
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Aalo Atomics|Aalo Atomics]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Star Catcher|Star Catcher]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/Model Producers/Harmonic|Harmonic]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/Model Producers/Thinking Machines|Thinking Machines]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Catio|Catio]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Maven Clinic|Maven Clinic]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Ontra|Ontra]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Trela|Trela]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Yassir|Yassir]]
:::

:::concepts
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Logistics AI|Logistics AI]]
- [[Vocabulary/Demand Forecasting|Demand Forecasting]]
- [[Vocabulary/Inventory Management Systems|Inventory Management Systems]]
:::

:::reader collections="market-maps,essays"
- [[lost-in-public/market-maps/The Future of CPG|The Future of CPG]]
- [[essays/Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up|Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up]]
:::

Commit message:

new(content): add new content for Global CVC trends
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/List.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/market-maps/Global CVC for Multinationals.md
	modified:   moc/Hypernova.md
	new file:   organizations/Unilever Ventures.md
	new file:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/ChurnZero.md
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x1024_1758899288.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x2048_1758899283.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_2048x1024_1758899276.png

moc/Hypernova.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-08-09
date_modified: 2025-09-26
---
:::features
- Reader
- Portfolio
:::

:::portfolio
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Aalo Atomics|Aalo Atomics]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Star Catcher|Star Catcher]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/Model Producers/Harmonic|Harmonic]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/Model Producers/Thinking Machines|Thinking Machines]]
- [[Tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI Interfaces/AI Workspaces/Vertical Wrappers/Catio|Catio]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Maven Clinic|Maven Clinic]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Ontra|Ontra]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Trela|Trela]]
- [[client-content/Hypernova/Portfolio/Yassir|Yassir]]
- [[Tooling/Data Utilities/Bruin|Bruin]]
- [[Tooling/Portfolio/Seabound|Seabound]]
:::

:::concepts
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Logistics AI|Logistics AI]]
- [[concepts/Open Innovation|Open Innovation]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Compliance AI|Compliance AI]]
:::

:::vocabulary
- [[Vocabulary/Demand Forecasting|Demand Forecasting]]
- [[Vocabulary/Inventory Management Systems|Inventory Management Systems]]
- [[Vocabulary/Internet of Things|Internet of Things]]
:::

:::reader collections="market-maps,essays"
- [[lost-in-public/market-maps/The Future of CPG|The Future of CPG]]
- [[lost-in-public/market-maps/Global CVC for Multinationals|Global CVC for Multinationals]]
- [[essays/Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up|Partnering with Startups when they Scale Up]]
:::
