moc/Laerdal.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-08-09
date_modified: 2025-08-10
---
:::features
- Reader
- Projects
- Portfolio
- Recommendations
:::

:::projects
- [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It.canvas|Augment-It]]
:::

:::vocabulary
- [[Vocabulary/Agile|Agile]]
- [[Vocabulary/AI Models|AI Models]]
- [[Vocabulary/Module Federation|Module Federation]]
- [[Vocabulary/Prompt Templates|Prompt Templates]]
- [[Vocabulary/Extended Reality|Extended Reality]]
- [[Vocabulary/Customer Experience|Customer Experience]]
- [[Vocabulary/Self-Hosting|Self-Hosting]]
- [[Vocabulary/Microfrontend Architecture|Microfrontends]]
- [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices]]
- [[Vocabulary/Smart Glasses|Smart Glasses]]
- [[Vocabulary/Yak Shaving|Yak Shaving]]
- [[Vocabulary/REST API|REST API]]
- [[Vocabulary/Cross-Platform Applications|Cross-Platform Applications]]
- [[Vocabulary/Monorepo|Monorepo]]
- [[Vocabulary/All-in-One Platforms|All-in-One Platform]]
- [[Vocabulary/Server Side Rendering|Server Side Rendering]]
- [[Vocabulary/Low-Code|Low-Code]]
- [[Vocabulary/Dev Ops|DevOps]]
- [[concepts/Unbundling|Unbundling]]
- [[Vocabulary/Stack Collisions|Stack Collisions]]
- [[Vocabulary/Product Roadmaps|Product Roadmaps]]
- [[Vocabulary/Loss Aversion|Loss Aversion]]
- [[Vocabulary/Friction|Friction]]
- [[Vocabulary/Domain-Driven Design|Domain-Driven Design]]
- [[Vocabulary/Divas|Divas]]
- [[Vocabulary/Code Review|Code Review]]
- [[Vocabulary/Wrangling|Wrangling]]
- [[Vocabulary/Port Clashes|Port Clashes]]
- [[Vocabulary/Parkinson's Law|Parkinson's Law]]
- [[Vocabulary/Onboarding Walkthrough|Onboarding Walkthrough]]
- [[Vocabulary/Locus of Control|Locus of Control]]
:::

:::concepts
- [[Coherence]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Voice Agents|Voice Agents]]
- [[concepts/Persuasive Technology|Persuasive Technology]]
- [[AI Avatars]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for Tooling/Learning Experience Platforms|Learning Experience Platforms]]
- [[concepts/Documentation First Development|Documentation First Development]]
- [[concepts/Complexity Cost|Complexity Cost]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Knowledge Base AI|Knowledge Base AI]]
- [[concepts/Pareto Curves|Pareto Curves]]
- [[concepts/Contrarian Talent|Contrarian Talent]]
:::

Commit message:

new(content):new content across collections
 On branch save/20250821
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   client-content/Avalanche/Portfolio/Cybernut.md
	modified:   essays/A New Standard for Chaining AI Operations called Model Context Protocol.md
	modified:   essays/Technology wants to be Emergent.md
	modified:   essays/Web Security is about Preventing Naivety.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/up-and-running/Up and Running with GSAP.md
	modified:   moc/Laerdal.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Knowledge AI/Kapa AI.md

moc/Laerdal.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-08-09
date_modified: 2025-08-20
---
:::features
- Reader
- Projects
- Portfolio
- Recommendations
:::

:::projects
- [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It.canvas|Augment-It]] 
:::

:::vocabulary
- [[Vocabulary/Agile|Agile]]
- [[Vocabulary/AI Models|AI Models]]
- [[Vocabulary/Module Federation|Module Federation]]
- [[Vocabulary/Prompt Templates|Prompt Templates]]
- [[Vocabulary/Extended Reality|Extended Reality]]
- [[Vocabulary/Customer Experience|Customer Experience]]
- [[Vocabulary/Self-Hosting|Self-Hosting]]
- [[Vocabulary/Microfrontend Architecture|Microfrontends]]
- [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices]]
- [[Vocabulary/Smart Glasses|Smart Glasses]]
- [[Vocabulary/Yak Shaving|Yak Shaving]]
- [[Vocabulary/REST API|REST API]]
- [[Vocabulary/Cross-Platform Applications|Cross-Platform Applications]]
- [[Vocabulary/Monorepo|Monorepo]]
- [[Vocabulary/All-in-One Platforms|All-in-One Platform]]
- [[Vocabulary/Server Side Rendering|Server Side Rendering]]
- [[Vocabulary/Low-Code|Low-Code]]
- [[Vocabulary/Dev Ops|DevOps]]
- [[concepts/Unbundling|Unbundling]]
- [[Vocabulary/Stack Collisions|Stack Collisions]]
- [[Vocabulary/Product Roadmaps|Product Roadmaps]]
- [[Vocabulary/Loss Aversion|Loss Aversion]]
- [[Vocabulary/Friction|Friction]]
- [[Vocabulary/Domain-Driven Design|Domain-Driven Design]]
- [[Vocabulary/Divas|Divas]]
- [[Vocabulary/Code Review|Code Review]]
- [[Vocabulary/Wrangling|Wrangling]]
- [[Vocabulary/Port Clashes|Port Clashes]]
- [[Vocabulary/Parkinson's Law|Parkinson's Law]]
- [[Vocabulary/Onboarding Walkthrough|Onboarding Walkthrough]]
- [[Vocabulary/Locus of Control|Locus of Control]]
:::

:::concepts
- [[Coherence]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Voice Agents|Voice Agents]]
- [[concepts/Persuasive Technology|Persuasive Technology]]
- [[AI Avatars]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for Tooling/Learning Experience Platforms|Learning Experience Platforms]]
- [[concepts/Documentation First Development|Documentation First Development]]
- [[concepts/Complexity Cost|Complexity Cost]]
- [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Knowledge Base AI|Knowledge Base AI]]
- [[concepts/Pareto Curves|Pareto Curves]]
- [[concepts/Contrarian Talent|Contrarian Talent]]
:::

:::essays
- [[essays/Technology wants to be Emergent|Technology wants to be Emergent]]
- [[essays/Load up on CARBS|Load up on CARBS]]
- [[essays/Consistent Go-to-Market|Consistent Go-to-Market]]
:::
