projects/ACE-It/Index.mdx, before:

---
date_created: 2025-08-15
date_modified: 2025-08-17
---
This is a practical playbook for building real products **with AI as a co-developer**.  It is explained with a real example of building a real product with AI, and it is battle tested.  We have the battle scars to show.  We hope you stay safe. 
# ACE It: a playbook and toolkit for AI-Augmented Product Development Workflow

## Introduction

In prototyping a web application that would use AI, we were swept up into the [[Vibe Coding]] craze that kicked off in late 2024.  To put things in context, we -- [[Sources/Laerdal Entities/The Lossless Group|The Lossless Group]] -- began using [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Code Generators|Code Generators]] to rapidly create a [[Vocabulary/Front-End|Front-End]] to [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It Monorepo Vision Specification|Augment-It]].  We did, it took about 2 weeks. 

Just to create a name, our emergent, battle-tested process we shall call [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|Accelerated Context Engineering]] (ACE).  

This is a comprehensive guide designed to seamlessly integrate AI-powered tools into development processes for teams of all sizes. 

> [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|ACE]] provides a modular, scalable approach to incorporating artificial intelligence into software development workflows, from small startup teams to large enterprise organizations.

**Key Philosophy**: Working with AI is fundamentally similar to working with a development team _the old fashioned way_ - it requires 
1. upfront orientation
2. continuous alignment
3. clear, modular documentation, continuously updated
4. well-defined interfaces
5. rigorous [[concepts/Version Control|Source Control Management]] practices,
6. iterative collaboration
#### The Need for Rigorous Product Work
Experienced software developers (who are not problem-market domain experts) can only perform at peak-performance,  deliver well-developed products, and work together efficiently.... with _a lot of upfront and continuous work_ before, around, with, during, and after the software engineering phase. 

Anyone who has worked with highly-paid, well recommended software engineers knows that regardless of talent, skill, and motivation, developing new software products does not always go well.  They often, even more often than not, take longer, come out wrong, need huge refactors, cause organizational delays, and can lead a good number of people to rage quit. 

More experienced people have learned the hard way that there is a huge amount of upfront and  necessary design, systems architecture, product management artifacts along with various forms of documentation and project workflows. With this kind of product work, building a new software product has a much higher chance of success.

Still, since [[organizations/Facebook|Facebook]] introduced [[Vocabulary/Hacker Culture|Hacker Culture]], most every rapid-growth company was founded by software engineers, led and scaled by software engineers, often who were young and did not have the hazing of working at large organizations that could afford to have many non-engineers spending lots of time preparing and planning.  So, depending on you, the readers, experience....  you may have gained your professional experience in the "Move fast and break things" culture of technology innovation of the past 20 years where documentation was something engineers reluctantly made after they had "shipped it" and others had to figure out how to work with what was shipped. 

Our experience cooperating with code generative AI suggests:
1. AI Copilots need an extremely rigorous set of documentation that function is iterative, living, and highly useful tools in getting to workflows that produce real code and not [[Vocabulary/Spaghetti Code|Spaghetti Code]]. The alternative is to make every prompt a roll of the dice, and to end up in some kind of vibe coding purgatory. 
2. AI Copilots are actually VERY GOOD and VERY FAST, with extraordinary consistency, at developing, maintaining, updating, and formatting the very same documentation they need.

## **Current State of AI**: 
Today’s AI coding models are quick and useful, but initial enthusiasm will meet a harsh reality:

> LLMs predict text rather than understand entire systems:

AI Models:
- only sees or can be aware of what fits in the [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Context Window|Context Window]], 
- make enormous and wild assumptions, frequently and repeatedly
- improvise redundant code with no organic attempt to use established patterns, guidelines, data models, or naming conventions.
- do not learn or remember anything outside the [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Context Window|Context Window]]
- can miss cross-file links, 
- sometimes invent APIs or versions, 
- often introduce new and unwanted frameworks, libraries, or other shortcuts,
- do not execute, profile, or secure code, 
- retrieval may be stale; 

Privacy, licensing, latency, and cost remain practical constraints. 

The [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|ACE]] toolkit and method has codified coping with those realities in mind — the techniques and architecture described here were created to avoid the limits of code generation with LLMs,. 

If understood and followed deliberately, we believe you will have our experience: we can Vibe and ACE our way into reliable, testable, repeatable, and auditable workflows for teams of any size.

## What Awaits You

This documentation is a practical playbook for building real products **with AI as a co-developer**. It is organized into five parts:

1. **Foundation & Philosophy** — how to think about AI-augmented development, work iteratively, and write prompts that actually guide results.
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Our-Approach|Our-Approach]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Iterative-Approach|Iterative-Approach]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Prompt-Engineering|Prompt-Engineering]]
	4. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Best-Practices|Best-Practices]]
2.  **Models Under the Hood & Tooling** — what modern models can (and can’t) do; modalities; tokens and context windows; “Thinking” vs. standard decoding; function/tool calling.
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Thinking-Models|Thinking-Models]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Tokens|Tokens]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Function-Calling|Function-Calling]]
	4. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Modalities|Modalities]]
3.  **Complex Features Engineering** — designing the data layer, integrating APIs, assembling UIs with shared components, and composing apps with microfrontends.
	1. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Host User Interface|Host User Interface]]
	2. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Microfrontends|Microfrontends]]
	3. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Data Layer|Data Layer]]
	4. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/API|API]]
4. **Safety & Security** — baseline security and data-handling, lightweight LLM-assisted audits, and using tests as executable specifications ([[LLM-TDD]]).
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/TDD|TDD]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/Audits|Audits]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/Security-Foundations|Security-Foundations]]
5. **Examples & Reference Implementation** — a real-world, end-to-end example that puts every principle into practice (microfrontends, module federation, shared UI, AI-powered workflows) with specs and apps you can adapt.
	1. 
6. **Practical Use Cases Ideas** — example concepts you can build on top of our system

**Bonuses**: 
- A complete, working example — the [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It Monorepo Vision Specification|Augment-It]] monorepo — demonstrates every principle in action through a real data augmentation platform with [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Microfrontends|Microfrontends]], [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices]], [[concepts/Explainers for AI/AI Integrations|AI Integrations]], and [[Vocabulary/Scalable Architecture|Scalable Architecture]].
- Our ACE Documentation Library is publicly accessible, sorted into Specifications, Blueprints, Reminders, and Prompts.  These are all on our website at https://lossless.group/vibe-with/us and our [[Tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/GitHub|GitHub]] public content repository at https://github.com/lossless-group/lossless-content




## Table of Contents

### 1. Foundation & Philosophy
- [**Our Approach**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Our-Approach.md) - Core principles for AI-augmented development
- [**Best Practices**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Best-Practices.md) - Proven strategies, tools, and guidelines
- [**Iterative Development Approach**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Iterative-Approach.md) - How to implement AI tools incrementally
- [**Prompt engineering essentials**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Prompt-Engineering.md) - How to write, iterate, and organize clear, reusable prompts

### 2. Models Under the Hood & Tooling
- [**Model families & modalities (text/vision/audio)**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Modalities.md) — Current model types, what they excel at, and how to choose
- [**Tokens, context windows, truncation/branching**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Tokens.md) — How tokenization and context size work; handling long inputs safely
- [**Thinking vs Standard Decoding**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Thinking-Models.md) — How “thinking” styles differ from standard decoding; quality/latency trade-offs
- [**Tool/Function calling**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Function-Calling.md) — When to call tools from a model and common integration patterns

### 3. Complex Features Engineering
- [**Data Layer & Modeling**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Data%20Layer.md) — Where data should live and how to model it from prototype to production
- [**API Design & Integration**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/API.md) — Designing small, predictable APIs and verifying integrations with LLM help
- [**UI Components**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Host%20User%20Interface.md) — Why a shared component library speeds delivery and reduces UI bugs
- [**Microfrontends**](./Complex-Features-Engineering.md//Microfrontends.md) — Isolating features and enabling parallel work via route-based or runtime federation

### 4. Safety & Security
- [**Security Foundations & Data Handling**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/Security-Foundations.md) — Least privilege, data lifecycle, and prompt rules that enforce safety
- [**LLM‑Assisted Security Audits**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/Audits.md) — Running lightweight audits with an assistant and using Lovable’s built-in checks
- [**LLM-TDD**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/TDD.md) — Using tests as executable specifications the model must satisfy


### 5. Examples & Reference Implementation

#### **Complete System Architecture**
- [**Augment-It Monorepo Vision**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It%20Monorepo%20Vision%20Specification.md) — High-level architecture overview and technical stack decisions
- [**Data Augmentation Workflow**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Data%20Augmentation%20Workflow%20with%20Microfrontends.md) — Complete workflow specification with microfrontend integration
- [**Module Federation with Docker**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Module-Federation-with-Docker.md) — Detailed containerization and federation architecture

#### **Core Applications (Microfrontends)**
- [**RecordCollector**](./Specs/apps/RecordCollector.md) — Data ingestion and management for customer records
- [**PromptTemplateManager**](./Specs/apps/PromptTemplateManager.md) — AI prompt creation and variable mapping system
- [**RequestReviewer**](./Specs/apps/RequestReviewer.md) — Request validation and approval workflow
- [**ResponseReviewer**](./Specs/apps/ResponseReviewer.md) — AI response quality assurance and review
- [**HighlightCollector**](./Specs/apps/HighlightCollector.md) — Key insights extraction and collection
- [**InsightAssembler**](./Specs/apps/InsightAssembler.md) — Final data synthesis and output generation

#### **Shared Infrastructure**
- [**Host Shell UI**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/host-shell-ui/MainContainerUI.md) — Main container application with navigation and layout
- [**API Integration Services**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/API%20Related%20Services.md) — External API connectors and data sources

#### **Implementation Artifacts**
- [**Micro Federation Blueprint**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Micro%20Federation%20Blueprint.md) — Federation patterns and best practices
- [**Micro Federation Explainer**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Micro%20Federation%20Explainer.md) — Detailed federation implementation guide

### 6. Other Use Case Ideas
- [**Internal knowledge assistant**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/Assistant.md) — Salesforce-backed answers to customer/deal questions with citations
- [**Lead enrichment & research**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/Research.md) — Web-sourced company facts/news written back as structured CRM snapshots
- [**Zoom Bot**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/n8n.md) — n8n flow: meeting ends → transcript → concise summary → synced to Salesforce


---


*This project represents a comprehensive approach to AI-augmented development, designed to scale with your team's needs while maintaining code quality and developer experience.*

Commit message:

improve(project): improve project ACE-It
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   concepts/Explainers for AI/AI Dregs.md
	new file:   projects/ACE-It/ACE-It-Canvas.canvas
	renamed:    projects/ACE-It/Docs-Kit/Living Specifications.md -> projects/ACE-It/Docs-Kit/Living-Specifications.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Index.mdx
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Models/Function-Calling.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Models/Modalities.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Models/Thinking-Models.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Models/Tokens.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Safety/Audits.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Safety/Security-Foundations.md
	modified:   projects/ACE-It/Safety/TDD.md
 Changes not staged for commit:
	modified:   content-areas (untracked content)

projects/ACE-It/Index.mdx, after:

---
date_created: 2025-08-15
date_modified: 2025-08-17
title: "Context Vigilance: A Neurotic model of Human + AI Product Development"
---
This is a practical playbook for building real products **with AI as a co-developer**.  It is explained with a real example of building a real product with AI, and it is battle tested.  We have the battle scars to show.  We hope you stay safe. 
# ACE It: a playbook and toolkit for AI-Augmented Product Development Workflow

## Introduction

In prototyping a web application that would use AI, we were swept up into the [[Vibe Coding]] craze that kicked off in late 2024.  To put things in context, we -- [[Sources/Laerdal Entities/The Lossless Group|The Lossless Group]] -- began using [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Code Generators|Code Generators]] to rapidly create a [[Vocabulary/Front-End|Front-End]] to [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It Monorepo Vision Specification|Augment-It]].  We did, it took about 2 weeks. 

But to iterate on our quick success, we quickly found ourselves in the [[AI Dregs]] and it became a massive misadventure. In software product development, What is AI Good For? 

Just to create a name, our emergent, battle-tested process we shall call [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|Accelerated Context Engineering]] (ACE).  

This is a comprehensive guide designed to seamlessly integrate AI-powered tools into development processes for teams of all sizes. 

> [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|ACE]] provides a modular, scalable approach to incorporating artificial intelligence into software development workflows, from small startup teams to large enterprise organizations.

**Key Philosophy**: Working with AI is fundamentally similar to working with a development team _the old fashioned way_ - it requires 
1. upfront orientation
2. continuous alignment
3. clear, modular documentation, continuously updated
4. well-defined interfaces
5. rigorous [[concepts/Version Control|Source Control Management]] practices,
6. iterative collaboration
#### The Need for Rigorous Product Work
Experienced software developers (who are not problem-market domain experts) can only perform at peak-performance,  deliver well-developed products, and work together efficiently.... with _a lot of upfront and continuous work_ before, around, with, during, and after the software engineering phase. 

Anyone who has worked with highly-paid, well recommended software engineers knows that regardless of talent, skill, and motivation, developing new software products does not always go well.  They often, even more often than not, take longer, come out wrong, need huge refactors, cause organizational delays, and can lead a good number of people to rage quit. 

More experienced people have learned the hard way that there is a huge amount of upfront and  necessary design, systems architecture, product management artifacts along with various forms of documentation and project workflows. With this kind of product work, building a new software product has a much higher chance of success.

Still, since [[organizations/Facebook|Facebook]] introduced [[Vocabulary/Hacker Culture|Hacker Culture]], most every rapid-growth company was founded by software engineers, led and scaled by software engineers, often who were young and did not have the hazing of working at large organizations that could afford to have many non-engineers spending lots of time preparing and planning.  So, depending on you, the readers, experience....  you may have gained your professional experience in the "Move fast and break things" culture of technology innovation of the past 20 years where documentation was something engineers reluctantly made after they had "shipped it" and others had to figure out how to work with what was shipped. 

Our experience cooperating with code generative AI suggests:
1. AI Copilots need an extremely rigorous set of documentation that function is iterative, living, and highly useful tools in getting to workflows that produce real code and not [[Vocabulary/Spaghetti Code|Spaghetti Code]]. The alternative is to make every prompt a roll of the dice, and to end up in some kind of vibe coding purgatory. 
2. AI Copilots are actually VERY GOOD and VERY FAST, with extraordinary consistency, at developing, maintaining, updating, and formatting the very same documentation they need.

## **Current State of AI**: 
Today’s AI coding models are quick and useful, but initial enthusiasm will meet a harsh reality:

> LLMs predict text rather than understand entire systems:

AI Models:
- only sees or can be aware of what fits in the [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Context Window|Context Window]], 
- make enormous and wild assumptions, frequently and repeatedly
- improvise redundant code with no organic attempt to use established patterns, guidelines, data models, or naming conventions.
- do not learn or remember anything outside the [[concepts/Explainers for AI/Context Window|Context Window]]
- can miss cross-file links, 
- sometimes invent APIs or versions, 
- often introduce new and unwanted frameworks, libraries, or other shortcuts,
- do not execute, profile, or secure code, 
- retrieval may be stale; 

Privacy, licensing, latency, and cost remain practical constraints. 

The [[concepts/Accelerated Context Engineering|ACE]] toolkit and method has codified coping with those realities in mind — the techniques and architecture described here were created to avoid the limits of code generation with LLMs,. 

If understood and followed deliberately, we believe you will have our experience: we can Vibe and ACE our way into reliable, testable, repeatable, and auditable workflows for teams of any size.

## What Awaits You

This documentation is a practical playbook for building real products **with AI as a co-developer**. It is organized into five parts:

1. **Foundation & Philosophy** — how to think about AI-augmented development, work iteratively, and write prompts that actually guide results.
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Our-Approach|Our-Approach]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Iterative-Approach|Iterative-Approach]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Prompt-Engineering|Prompt-Engineering]]
	4. [[projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Best-Practices|Best-Practices]]
2.  **Models Under the Hood & Tooling** — what modern models can (and can’t) do; modalities; tokens and context windows; “Thinking” vs. standard decoding; function/tool calling.
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Thinking-Models|Thinking-Models]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Tokens|Tokens]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Function-Calling|Function-Calling]]
	4. [[projects/ACE-It/Models/Modalities|Modalities]]
3.  **Complex Features Engineering** — designing the data layer, integrating APIs, assembling UIs with shared components, and composing apps with microfrontends.
	1. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Host User Interface|Host User Interface]]
	2. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Microfrontends|Microfrontends]]
	3. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Data Layer|Data Layer]]
	4. [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/API|API]]
4. **Safety & Security** — baseline security and data-handling, lightweight LLM-assisted audits, and using tests as executable specifications ([[LLM-TDD]]).
	1. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/TDD|TDD]]
	2. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/Audits|Audits]]
	3. [[projects/ACE-It/Safety/Security-Foundations|Security-Foundations]]
5. **Examples & Reference Implementation** — a real-world, end-to-end example that puts every principle into practice (microfrontends, module federation, shared UI, AI-powered workflows) with specs and apps you can adapt.
	1. 
6. **Practical Use Cases Ideas** — example concepts you can build on top of our system
	1. [[Design System First Development]]
	2. [[Changelog-First Development]]
	3. [[concepts/Documentation First Development|Documentation First Development]]
	4. [[concepts/Design to Engineering Handoff|Design to Engineering Handoff]]
	5. [[concepts/Test-Driven Development|Test-Driven Development]]
	6. [[AI-Powered Refactors]]
	7. 

**Bonuses**: 
- A complete, working example — the [[projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It Monorepo Vision Specification|Augment-It]] monorepo — demonstrates every principle in action through a real data augmentation platform with [[projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Microfrontends|Microfrontends]], [[Vocabulary/Microservices|Microservices]], [[concepts/Explainers for AI/AI Integrations|AI Integrations]], and [[Vocabulary/Scalable Architecture|Scalable Architecture]].
- Our ACE Documentation Library is publicly accessible, sorted into Specifications, Blueprints, Reminders, and Prompts.  These are all on our website at https://lossless.group/vibe-with/us and our [[Tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/GitHub|GitHub]] public content repository at https://github.com/lossless-group/lossless-content




## Table of Contents

### 1. Foundation & Philosophy
- [**Our Approach**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Our-Approach.md) - Core principles for AI-augmented development
- [**Best Practices**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Best-Practices.md) - Proven strategies, tools, and guidelines
- [**Iterative Development Approach**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Iterative-Approach.md) - How to implement AI tools incrementally
- [**Prompt engineering essentials**](projects/ACE-It/Philosophy/Prompt-Engineering.md) - How to write, iterate, and organize clear, reusable prompts

### 2. Models Under the Hood & Tooling
- [**Model families & modalities (text/vision/audio)**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Modalities.md) — Current model types, what they excel at, and how to choose
- [**Tokens, context windows, truncation/branching**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Tokens.md) — How tokenization and context size work; handling long inputs safely
- [**Thinking vs Standard Decoding**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Thinking-Models.md) — How “thinking” styles differ from standard decoding; quality/latency trade-offs
- [**Tool/Function calling**](projects/ACE-It/Models/Function-Calling.md) — When to call tools from a model and common integration patterns

### 3. Complex Features Engineering
- [**Data Layer & Modeling**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Data%20Layer.md) — Where data should live and how to model it from prototype to production
- [**API Design & Integration**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/API.md) — Designing small, predictable APIs and verifying integrations with LLM help
- [**UI Components**](projects/Augment-It/High-Level-Architecture/Host%20User%20Interface.md) — Why a shared component library speeds delivery and reduces UI bugs
- [**Microfrontends**](./Complex-Features-Engineering.md//Microfrontends.md) — Isolating features and enabling parallel work via route-based or runtime federation

### 4. Safety & Security
- [**Security Foundations & Data Handling**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/Security-Foundations.md) — Least privilege, data lifecycle, and prompt rules that enforce safety
- [**LLM‑Assisted Security Audits**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/Audits.md) — Running lightweight audits with an assistant and using Lovable’s built-in checks
- [**LLM-TDD**](projects/ACE-It/Safety/TDD.md) — Using tests as executable specifications the model must satisfy


### 5. Examples & Reference Implementation

#### **Complete System Architecture**
- [**Augment-It Monorepo Vision**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Augment-It%20Monorepo%20Vision%20Specification.md) — High-level architecture overview and technical stack decisions
- [**Data Augmentation Workflow**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Data%20Augmentation%20Workflow%20with%20Microfrontends.md) — Complete workflow specification with microfrontend integration
- [**Module Federation with Docker**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Module-Federation-with-Docker.md) — Detailed containerization and federation architecture

#### **Core Applications (Microfrontends)**
- [**RecordCollector**](./Specs/apps/RecordCollector.md) — Data ingestion and management for customer records
- [**PromptTemplateManager**](./Specs/apps/PromptTemplateManager.md) — AI prompt creation and variable mapping system
- [**RequestReviewer**](./Specs/apps/RequestReviewer.md) — Request validation and approval workflow
- [**ResponseReviewer**](./Specs/apps/ResponseReviewer.md) — AI response quality assurance and review
- [**HighlightCollector**](./Specs/apps/HighlightCollector.md) — Key insights extraction and collection
- [**InsightAssembler**](./Specs/apps/InsightAssembler.md) — Final data synthesis and output generation

#### **Shared Infrastructure**
- [**Host Shell UI**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/host-shell-ui/MainContainerUI.md) — Main container application with navigation and layout
- [**API Integration Services**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/API%20Related%20Services.md) — External API connectors and data sources

#### **Implementation Artifacts**
- [**Micro Federation Blueprint**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Micro%20Federation%20Blueprint.md) — Federation patterns and best practices
- [**Micro Federation Explainer**](projects/Augment-It/Specs/Micro%20Federation%20Explainer.md) — Detailed federation implementation guide

### 6. Other Use Case Ideas
- [**Internal knowledge assistant**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/Assistant.md) — Salesforce-backed answers to customer/deal questions with citations
- [**Lead enrichment & research**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/Research.md) — Web-sourced company facts/news written back as structured CRM snapshots
- [**Zoom Bot**](projects/ACE-It/UseCases/n8n.md) — n8n flow: meeting ends → transcript → concise summary → synced to Salesforce


---


*This project represents a comprehensive approach to AI-augmented development, designed to scale with your team's needs while maintaining code quality and developer experience.*
