lost-in-public/talks/Venture Investing in the Gold Rush of AI.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-07-20
date_modified: 2025-07-20
participants:
  - Michael Staton
  - Oz Sihlatar
google_maps_url: "https://maps.app.goo.gl/ks4bpfmxT3PqXC2b6"
date_planned: 2025-07-23
image_prompt: "A man and a robot (representing AI) are standing beyond the door to a tornado shelter that's underground, the door is a hatch coming out of the ground at an angle. It's an image similar to the Wizard of Oz. The storm shelter has two swinging doors, and one door is shut. Someone is holding the other door open.  All three are looking at a giant storm coming, with many tornadoes touching down."
tags: [AI-Toolkit, Venture-Capital, Solutions-For-Scale, Founder-Toolkit]
banner_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_banner_image_1753051394047_lv-lOjqfC.webp"
portrait_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_portrait_image_1753051396444__7lmo3iCs.webp"
square_image: "https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_square_image_1753051398446_xfkQIKS0I.webp"
---

Commit message:

new(collection): add new content collection to site
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	modified:   lost-in-public/reminders/Remind-a-Model-of-Specification-Guidelines.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/talks/Become a Better Founder.md
	new file:   lost-in-public/talks/Education, Employment, and Growth.md
	modified:   lost-in-public/talks/Venture Investing in the Gold Rush of AI.md
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x1024_1753059726.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x1024_1753115313.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x2048_1753059720.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_1024x2048_1753115307.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_2048x1024_1753059713.png
	new file:   visuals/ContentDisplays/generated-image_2048x1024_1753115301.png

lost-in-public/talks/Venture Investing in the Gold Rush of AI.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-07-20
date_modified: 2025-07-21
participants:
  - Michael Staton
  - Oz Sihlatar
google_maps_url: https://maps.app.goo.gl/ks4bpfmxT3PqXC2b6
date_of_event: 2025-07-23
image_prompt: A man and a robot (representing AI) are standing beyond the door to a tornado shelter that's underground, the door is a hatch coming out of the ground at an angle. It's an image similar to the Wizard of Oz. The storm shelter has two swinging doors, and one door is shut. Someone is holding the other door open.  All three are looking at a giant storm coming, with many tornadoes touching down.
tags:
  - AI-Toolkit
  - Venture-Capital
  - Solutions-For-Scale
  - Founder-Toolkit
banner_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_banner_image_1753051394047_lv-lOjqfC.webp
portrait_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_portrait_image_1753051396444__7lmo3iCs.webp
square_image: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/july/Venture_Investing_in_the_Gold_Rush_of_AI_square_image_1753051398446_xfkQIKS0I.webp
title: Venture investing in the Gold Rush of Artificial Intelligence
lede: Nothing makes sense anymore.  Why should we?
categories:
  - Age-of-AI
---
