sources/Laerdal Entities/Life Design System.md, before:


Maintained by the [[Design]] team based in Copenhagen, reporting to [[Hector Mejia]].  The [[concepts/Single Point of Contact]] is [[Troels Villumsen]]. 

The [[Life Design System]] is [available as a package on npm at this link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@laerdal/life-react-components?activeTab=readme), and documented in [[Storybook]] at [this link](https://laerdal-components-storybook.azurewebsites.net/?path=/docs/components-accordion-accordionmenu--documentation).

The [[Design Systems]] in [[Tooling/Figma]] is comprehensive, but it is not being effectively used by all teams in Laerdal. 
The [[Digital Business Unit]] and [[Laerdal Labs]] tries to be compliant with the design system, with designers working with the Life library and developers using the React Library.
Main challenges and barriers for faster execution are legacy systems that cannot implement React components (e.g. LLEAP, initial e-commerce website).
Example of how we work around this: For the navigation project building blocks are created as web components, so they can be used across (as React is not compatible with Vue (e-commerce))

The [[Life Design System]] is a key part Laerdal implementing [[Vocabulary/Atomic Design|Atomic Design]]

Commit message:

add(content): add misc content to concepts, toolkit, vocabulary
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   concepts/Data-Driven Development.md
	modified:   concepts/Design System First Development.md
	modified:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Large Codebase AI.md
	modified:   concepts/Explainers for Tooling/UI-Kit.md
	modified:   moc/Flourish.md
	modified:   sources/Laerdal Entities/Life Design System.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/AI SDK.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Agentic AI/Mesina Labs.md
	new file:   tooling/Data Utilities/Posit.md
	new file:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/ReadPartner.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/Cast AIP.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/Documentation Engines/Storybook.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/Documentation Engines/ZeroHeight.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/SonarQube.md
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Lego-Kit Engineering Tools/Build at Lightspeed.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Programming Languages/Julia.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Atomic Design.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Data Flow Diagrams.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Interactive Notebooks.md
 Changes not staged for commit:
	modified:   content-areas (modified content, untracked content)

sources/Laerdal Entities/Life Design System.md, after:


Maintained by the [[Design]] team based in Copenhagen, reporting to [[Hector Mejia]].  The [[concepts/Single Point of Contact]] is [[Troels Villumsen]]. 

The [[Life Design System]] is [available as a package on npm at this link](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@laerdal/life-react-components?activeTab=readme), and documented in [[Tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevOps/Documentation Engines/Storybook]] at [this link](https://laerdal-components-storybook.azurewebsites.net/?path=/docs/components-accordion-accordionmenu--documentation).

The [[Design Systems]] in [[Tooling/Figma]] is comprehensive, but it is not being effectively used by all teams in Laerdal. 
The [[Digital Business Unit]] and [[Laerdal Labs]] tries to be compliant with the design system, with designers working with the Life library and developers using the React Library.
Main challenges and barriers for faster execution are legacy systems that cannot implement React components (e.g. LLEAP, initial e-commerce website).
Example of how we work around this: For the navigation project building blocks are created as web components, so they can be used across (as React is not compatible with Vue (e-commerce))

The [[Life Design System]] is a key part Laerdal implementing [[Vocabulary/Atomic Design|Atomic Design]]
