vocabulary/Application Programming Interface.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-03-28
date_modified: 2025-04-12
site_uuid: c66d84c0-6a37-4e96-8cd4-669ad0e33648
tags:
  - Technology-Trends
  - State-Of-The-Art-Practices
aliases:
  - API
  - APIs
---

https://youtu.be/GhX8sNyFo5w?si=1W1wwzboV-pd428m

https://youtu.be/ByGJQzlzxQg?si=gTJrP0rjOGffV1U_

https://youtu.be/F318zw_HKDw?si=zvQODJJXHbRFoBe4

https://youtu.be/ByGJQzlzxQg?si=_IAazWUbhbyUkBZQ
https://youtu.be/uH0SxYdsjv4?si=hk6nEcozIQyPdrsJ

https://youtube.com/shorts/b4TpO9pYpqk?si=zmW7at2x9MqfEGwp
## API Standards
API standards

- **[[emergent-innovation/Standards/The Open API Initiative|OpenAPI]]**
    
    A standard for describing RESTful APIs, including endpoints, parameters, responses, and security requirements. It can be written in JSON or YAML. [[REST API|REST APIs]]
    
- **[[gRPC]]**
    
    An open-source API framework that allows client applications to call methods from server applications on different computers. 
    
    

Other API-related topics

- Common API authentication and authorization methods include [[emergent-innovation/Standards/Transport Layer Security|TLS]] encryption, [[emergent-innovation/Standards/OAuth]] 2.0, and [[emergent-innovation/Standards/JSON Web Tokens|JWT]]-based authentication. 

- A composite API allows you to hit multiple API endpoints on a single call. 

- [[REST API|REST APIs]] are the most common type of protocol. 

- [[emergent-innovation/Standards/GraphQL]] is a newer type of protocol that allows for more efficient data retrieval.
![](https://i.imgur.com/p81Sr7f.png)



> [!NOTE] AI Explains [[Application Programming Interface|APIs]]
> ### **APIs: Simplifying Software Communication**
> 
> **APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)** are defined sets of rules and protocols that software programs use to communicate with one another. They provide methods and data structures that developers can leverage to interact with a program, acting as building blocks that simplify software development.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Key Features of APIs**
> 
> 1. **Interface Abstraction**: APIs simplify complex software functionalities into reusable, manageable components, enabling external systems to interact without needing to understand the underlying implementation details.
>     
> 2. **Modularity**: They allow developers to create functionalities that can be reused across multiple programs, reducing the need for reimplementation.
>     
> 3. **[[Encapsulation]]**: APIs hide the internal workings of a system, exposing only the necessary functionalities. This improves security and usability by minimizing external access to sensitive components.
>     
> 4. **[[Interoperability]]**: They enable communication between different software systems, regardless of the technologies, architectures, or platforms involved in their development.
>     
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **How APIs Work**
> 
> APIs function by exposing a specific set of functions and procedures that external systems can use to communicate with a program. For example, a web API might allow a third-party application to submit form data or query a database through pre-defined methods, without revealing the internal logic of the system. When a request is sent to an API, it processes the request (if valid) and returns a response, typically in the form of data or an acknowledgment.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **The Problems APIs Solve**
> 
> APIs eliminate the need to fully understand or rebuild a system's internal functionality to integrate with it. They enable applications and platforms to communicate effectively, fostering the creation of more sophisticated and interconnected software ecosystems.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Implications of APIs**
> 
> APIs are vital for building scalable and flexible software architectures. They accelerate software development, simplify integration, and drive innovation by making it easy to leverage external functionality and data sources.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Impact of APIs**
> 
> The rise of APIs has transformed how software is designed, developed, and integrated. Their widespread adoption has driven advancements in web services, cloud computing, and mobile application development. APIs empower businesses to quickly adapt to new opportunities by utilizing external tools and services.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **API Security: Defense Mechanisms**
> 
> To protect APIs and the systems they connect, several security measures are commonly implemented:
> 
> 1. **Authentication and Authorization**: APIs often require tokens or keys to verify and control access to their functionalities.
> 2. **Rate Limiting**: Limits the number of requests a client can make within a specific time to prevent abuse and overuse.
> 3. **Data Validation**: Ensures incoming data is sanitized and checked to mitigate vulnerabilities like SQL injection or data corruption.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Risks of Poorly Designed APIs**
> 
> While APIs streamline communication and integration, insecure or poorly designed APIs can expose systems to risks such as unauthorized access, data breaches, and service disruptions.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Common Tools for API Development**
> 
> 1. **[[Swagger]] ([[emergent-innovation/Standards/The Open API Initiative|OpenAPI]])**: A suite of tools for designing, documenting, and building RESTful APIs.
> 2. **[[Postman 1]]**: A popular tool for testing, building, and documenting APIs.
> 3. **API Gateways**: Tools like Amazon API Gateway or Kong manage API traffic, enforce access policies, and provide monitoring and analytics.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Relevant Cybersecurity Policies**
> 
> 1. **[[OWASP API]] Security Top 10**: Highlights critical API security risks and offers mitigation strategies.
> 2. **[[ISO/IEC 27001]]**: A broader standard that includes risk management practices applicable to API security.
> 3. **[[emergent-innovation/Policy-&-Regulation/(GDPR) General Data Protection Regulation]]**: Impacts APIs that handle personal data of EU citizens, requiring secure data processing and compliance with privacy regulations.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Best Practices for APIs**
> 
> - Adopt industry-standard protocols and methods for API development and security.
> - Monitor API usage to detect and respond to abnormal behavior or security threats.
> - Provide comprehensive documentation to guide developers while minimizing risks.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Current Trends in APIs**
> 
> The significance of APIs continues to grow in the software landscape. Innovations in API management, security, and integration frameworks are ongoing, with a strong focus on improving functionality, usability, and security to meet evolving demands.

Commit message:

new(tool): added new tool to toolkit
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   tooling/Software Development/Lego-Kit Engineering Tools/Swagger API.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Application Programming Interface.md

vocabulary/Application Programming Interface.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-03-28
date_modified: 2025-04-12
site_uuid: c66d84c0-6a37-4e96-8cd4-669ad0e33648
tags:
  - Technology-Trends
  - State-Of-The-Art-Practices
aliases:
  - API
  - APIs
---

https://youtu.be/GhX8sNyFo5w?si=1W1wwzboV-pd428m

https://youtu.be/ByGJQzlzxQg?si=gTJrP0rjOGffV1U_

https://youtu.be/F318zw_HKDw?si=zvQODJJXHbRFoBe4

https://youtu.be/ByGJQzlzxQg?si=_IAazWUbhbyUkBZQ
https://youtu.be/uH0SxYdsjv4?si=hk6nEcozIQyPdrsJ

https://youtube.com/shorts/b4TpO9pYpqk?si=zmW7at2x9MqfEGwp
## API Standards
API standards

- **[[emergent-innovation/Standards/The Open API Initiative|OpenAPI]]**
    
    A standard for describing RESTful APIs, including endpoints, parameters, responses, and security requirements. It can be written in JSON or YAML. [[REST API|REST APIs]]
    
- **[[gRPC]]**
    
    An open-source API framework that allows client applications to call methods from server applications on different computers. 
    
    

Other API-related topics

- Common API authentication and authorization methods include [[emergent-innovation/Standards/Transport Layer Security|TLS]] encryption, [[emergent-innovation/Standards/OAuth]] 2.0, and [[emergent-innovation/Standards/JSON Web Tokens|JWT]]-based authentication. 

- A composite API allows you to hit multiple API endpoints on a single call. 

- [[REST API|REST APIs]] are the most common type of protocol. 

- [[emergent-innovation/Standards/GraphQL]] is a newer type of protocol that allows for more efficient data retrieval.
![](https://i.imgur.com/p81Sr7f.png)



> [!NOTE] AI Explains [[Application Programming Interface|APIs]]
> ### **APIs: Simplifying Software Communication**
> 
> **APIs (Application Programming Interfaces)** are defined sets of rules and protocols that software programs use to communicate with one another. They provide methods and data structures that developers can leverage to interact with a program, acting as building blocks that simplify software development.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Key Features of APIs**
> 
> 1. **Interface Abstraction**: APIs simplify complex software functionalities into reusable, manageable components, enabling external systems to interact without needing to understand the underlying implementation details.
>     
> 2. **Modularity**: They allow developers to create functionalities that can be reused across multiple programs, reducing the need for reimplementation.
>     
> 3. **[[Encapsulation]]**: APIs hide the internal workings of a system, exposing only the necessary functionalities. This improves security and usability by minimizing external access to sensitive components.
>     
> 4. **[[Interoperability]]**: They enable communication between different software systems, regardless of the technologies, architectures, or platforms involved in their development.
>     
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **How APIs Work**
> 
> APIs function by exposing a specific set of functions and procedures that external systems can use to communicate with a program. For example, a web API might allow a third-party application to submit form data or query a database through pre-defined methods, without revealing the internal logic of the system. When a request is sent to an API, it processes the request (if valid) and returns a response, typically in the form of data or an acknowledgment.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **The Problems APIs Solve**
> 
> APIs eliminate the need to fully understand or rebuild a system's internal functionality to integrate with it. They enable applications and platforms to communicate effectively, fostering the creation of more sophisticated and interconnected software ecosystems.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Implications of APIs**
> 
> APIs are vital for building scalable and flexible software architectures. They accelerate software development, simplify integration, and drive innovation by making it easy to leverage external functionality and data sources.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Impact of APIs**
> 
> The rise of APIs has transformed how software is designed, developed, and integrated. Their widespread adoption has driven advancements in web services, cloud computing, and mobile application development. APIs empower businesses to quickly adapt to new opportunities by utilizing external tools and services.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **API Security: Defense Mechanisms**
> 
> To protect APIs and the systems they connect, several security measures are commonly implemented:
> 
> 1. **Authentication and Authorization**: APIs often require tokens or keys to verify and control access to their functionalities.
> 2. **Rate Limiting**: Limits the number of requests a client can make within a specific time to prevent abuse and overuse.
> 3. **Data Validation**: Ensures incoming data is sanitized and checked to mitigate vulnerabilities like SQL injection or data corruption.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Risks of Poorly Designed APIs**
> 
> While APIs streamline communication and integration, insecure or poorly designed APIs can expose systems to risks such as unauthorized access, data breaches, and service disruptions.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Common Tools for API Development**
> 
> 1. **[[Tooling/Software Development/Lego-Kit Engineering Tools/Swagger API]] ([[emergent-innovation/Standards/The Open API Initiative|OpenAPI]])**: A suite of tools for designing, documenting, and building RESTful APIs.
> 2. **[[Postman 1]]**: A popular tool for testing, building, and documenting APIs.
> 3. **API Gateways**: Tools like Amazon API Gateway or Kong manage API traffic, enforce access policies, and provide monitoring and analytics.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Relevant Cybersecurity Policies**
> 
> 1. **[[OWASP API]] Security Top 10**: Highlights critical API security risks and offers mitigation strategies.
> 2. **[[ISO/IEC 27001]]**: A broader standard that includes risk management practices applicable to API security.
> 3. **[[emergent-innovation/Policy-&-Regulation/(GDPR) General Data Protection Regulation]]**: Impacts APIs that handle personal data of EU citizens, requiring secure data processing and compliance with privacy regulations.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Best Practices for APIs**
> 
> - Adopt industry-standard protocols and methods for API development and security.
> - Monitor API usage to detect and respond to abnormal behavior or security threats.
> - Provide comprehensive documentation to guide developers while minimizing risks.
> 
> ---
> 
> ### **Current Trends in APIs**
> 
> The significance of APIs continues to grow in the software landscape. Innovations in API management, security, and integration frameworks are ongoing, with a strong focus on improving functionality, usability, and security to meet evolving demands.
