tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/Yarn.md, before:

---
date_created: 2025-04-25
date_modified: 2025-08-23
url: https://yarnpkg.com/
zinger: Safe, stable, reproducible projects
description_site_cp: Yarn is a package manager that doubles down as project manager. Whether you work on simple projects or industry monorepos, whether you're an open source developer or an enterprise user, Yarn has your back.
og_image: https://yarnpkg.com/img/social-preview.png
og_url: https://yarnpkg.com/
site_name: Yarn
description: Yarn, the modern JavaScript package manager
og_screenshot_url: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/screenshots/20250529_Yarn_og_screenshot.jpeg
og_last_fetch: 2025-05-29T13:16:06.421Z
site_uuid: 3a83aec7-aa38-449a-9973-b9a0d0535872
tags: [Package-Managers, Developer-Experience, Monorepo-Management]
maintained_by: "[[organizations/Facebook|Facebook]]"
---

[Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces)

Yarn is a fast, reliable, and secure package manager developed by Facebook (now [[organizations/Meta|Meta]]) in 2016. It was created to improve upon the existing package manager for JavaScript, npm (Node Package Manager), addressing some of its known issues such as slow installation speeds due to caching and network requests.

Key Features of Yarn:

1. **Speed**: One of the main advantages of Yarn is its speed. It parallelizes operations to maximize resource utilization, ensuring that installations are quick and efficient. 

2. **Reliability**: Yarn locks down your project's dependencies in a file named `yarn.lock`. This ensures that every developer working on the project, as well as continuous integration servers, will install exactly the same versions of packages, reducing the risk of "it works on my machine" issues.

3. **Security**: Yarn verifies package integrity using checksums and supports HTTPS for secure downloads. It also provides a feature called 'offline mirror' which allows you to install packages without an internet connection by first downloading them once online and then using this local cache.

4. **Consistency**: Similar to npm, Yarn uses a `package.json` file to define your project dependencies, but it organizes these in a directory structure (`yarn.lock`). This makes it easier for teams to manage dependencies.

5. **Community and Ecosystem**: Despite being developed by Facebook, Yarn is open-source and has a strong community backing. It supports the same registry as npm (npmjs.com), meaning you can use existing packages without any modification.

6. **Workspaces**: Yarn has built-in support for monorepos through 'workspaces', allowing you to manage multiple related packages in a single repository, making it easier to share code and dependencies among them.

In summary, Yarn is designed to be a fast, secure, and reliable alternative to npm. It's widely used in the JavaScript community, particularly in large-scale projects and enterprise settings. However, as of 2021, npm has been adopting many of these features, blurring some of the differences between the two package managers.

Commit message:

update, new(content): update new content across various files
 On branch development
 Your branch is up to date with 'origin/development'.
 Changes to be committed:
	new file:   client-content/Hypernova/Hyperupdate.md
	modified:   concepts/Data Augmentation Workflow.md
	modified:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Agentic Workflows.md
	new file:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Browser Agents.md
	new file:   concepts/Explainers for AI/Human-in-the-Loop.md
	modified:   moc/Laerdal.md
	modified:   organizations/The Apache Software Foundation.md
	new file:   tooling/AI-Toolkit/Agentic AI/Agentic Workspaces/Wordware.md
	new file:   tooling/Data Utilities/Flourish Studio.md
	new file:   tooling/Data Utilities/Hadoop.md
	new file:   tooling/Enterprise Jobs-to-be-Done/SupportFinity.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/Yarn.md
	modified:   tooling/Software Development/Programming Languages/Julia.md
	modified:   vocabulary/Data Labeling.md
	new file:   vocabulary/Distributed Computing.md
 Changes not staged for commit:
	modified:   content-areas (modified content, untracked content)

tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/Yarn.md, after:

---
date_created: 2025-04-25
date_modified: 2025-08-28
url: https://yarnpkg.com/
zinger: Safe, stable, reproducible projects
description_site_cp: Yarn is a package manager that doubles down as project manager. Whether you work on simple projects or industry monorepos, whether you're an open source developer or an enterprise user, Yarn has your back.
og_image: https://yarnpkg.com/img/social-preview.png
og_url: https://yarnpkg.com/
site_name: Yarn
description: Yarn, the modern JavaScript package manager
og_screenshot_url: https://ik.imagekit.io/xvpgfijuw/uploads/lossless/screenshots/20250529_Yarn_og_screenshot.jpeg
og_last_fetch: 2025-05-29T13:16:06.421Z
site_uuid: 3a83aec7-aa38-449a-9973-b9a0d0535872
tags: [Package-Managers, Developer-Experience, Monorepo-Management]
maintained_by: "[[organizations/Facebook|Facebook]]"
aliases: [Yet Another Resource Negotiator]
---

[Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces)

Yarn is a fast, reliable, and secure package manager developed by Facebook (now [[organizations/Meta|Meta]]) in 2016. It was created to improve upon the existing package manager for [[Tooling/Software Development/Programming Languages/JavaScript|JavaScript]], [[Tooling/Software Development/Developer Experience/DevTools/Node Package Manager|npm]] (Node Package Manager), addressing some of its known issues such as slow installation speeds due to caching and network requests.

Key Features of Yarn:

1. **Speed**: One of the main advantages of Yarn is its speed. It parallelizes operations to maximize resource utilization, ensuring that installations are quick and efficient. 

2. **Reliability**: Yarn locks down your project's dependencies in a file named `yarn.lock`. This ensures that every developer working on the project, as well as continuous integration servers, will install exactly the same versions of packages, reducing the risk of "it works on my machine" issues.

3. **Security**: Yarn verifies package integrity using checksums and supports HTTPS for secure downloads. It also provides a feature called 'offline mirror' which allows you to install packages without an internet connection by first downloading them once online and then using this local cache.

4. **Consistency**: Similar to npm, Yarn uses a `package.json` file to define your project dependencies, but it organizes these in a directory structure (`yarn.lock`). This makes it easier for teams to manage dependencies.

5. **Community and Ecosystem**: Despite being developed by Facebook, Yarn is open-source and has a strong community backing. It supports the same registry as npm (npmjs.com), meaning you can use existing packages without any modification.

6. **Workspaces**: Yarn has built-in support for monorepos through 'workspaces', allowing you to manage multiple related packages in a single repository, making it easier to share code and dependencies among them.

In summary, Yarn is designed to be a fast, secure, and reliable alternative to npm. It's widely used in the JavaScript community, particularly in large-scale projects and enterprise settings. However, as of 2021, npm has been adopting many of these features, blurring some of the differences between the two package managers.
